WEBAPI.FETCH-API-USING-DEFERRED-FETCH(1) Sandbox manual WEBAPI.FETCH-API-USING-DEFERRED-FETCH(1)

       NAME

       Using Deferred Fetch - The fetchLater() API provides an interface to request a deferred fetch that can be sent after a specified period of time, or when the page i

       USING DEFERRED FETCH

       The fetchLater() API provides an interface to request a deferred fetch that can be sent after a specified period of time, or when the page is closed or navigated away from.

       OVERVIEW

       Developers often need to send (or beacon) data back to the server, particularly at the end of a user's visit to a page — for example, for analytics services. There are several ways to do this: from adding 1 pixel elements to the page, to XMLHttpRequest, to the dedicated Beacon API, and the Fetch API itself.

       The issue is that all of these methods suffer from reliability problems for end-of-visit beaconing. While the Beacon API and the keepalive property of the Fetch API will send data, even if the document is destroyed (to the best efforts that can be made in this scenario), this only solves part of the problem.

       The other — more difficult — part to solve concerns deciding _when_ to send the data, since there is not an ideal time in a page's lifecycle to make the JavaScript call to send out the beacon:

        * The unload and beforeunload events are unreliable, and outright ignored by several major browsers.
        * The pagehide and visibilitychange events are more reliable, but still have issues on mobile platforms.
       This means developers looking to reliably send out data via a beacon need to do so more frequently than is ideal. For example, they may send a beacon on each change, even if the final value for the page has not yet been reached. This has costs in network usage, server processing, and merging or discarding outdated beacons on the server.

       Alternatively, developers can choose to accept some level of missing data — either by:

        * Beaconing after a designated cut-off time and not collecting later data.
        * Beaconing at the end of the page lifecycle but accepting that sometimes this will not be reliable.
       The fetchLater() API extends the Fetch API to allow setting fetch requests up in advance. These deferred fetches can be updated before they have been sent, allowing the payload to reflect the latest data to be beaconed.

       The browser then sends the beacon when the tab is closed or navigated away from, or after a set time if specified. This avoids sending multiple beacons but still ensures a reliable beacon within reasonable expectations (i.e., excluding when the browser process shuts down unexpectedly during a crash).

       Deferred fetches can also be aborted using an AbortController if they are no longer required, avoiding further unnecessary costs.

       QUOTAS

       Deferred fetches are batched and sent once the tab is closed; at this point, there is no way for the user to abort them. To avoid situations where documents abuse this bandwidth to send unlimited amounts of data over the network, the overall quota for a top-level document is capped at 640KiB.

       Callers of fetchLater() should be defensive and catch QuotaExceededError errors in almost all cases, especially if they embed third-party JavaScript.

       Since this cap makes deferred fetch bandwidth a scarce resource, which needs to be shared between multiple reporting origins (for example, several RUM libraries) and subframes from multiple origins, the platform provides a reasonable default division of this quota. In addition, it provides deferred-fetch and deferred-fetch-minimal Permissions Policy directives to allow dividing it differently when desired.

       The overall quota for fetchLater() is 640KiB per document. By default, this is divided into a 512KiB top-level quota and a 128KiB shared quota:

        * The 512KiB top-level quota by default is for any fetchLater() requests made from the top-level document and direct subframes using that origin.
        * The 128KiB shared quota by default is for any fetchLater() requests made in cross-origin subframes (for example, , , , and elements).
       fetchLater() requests can be made to any URL and are not restricted to the same origin as the document or the subframe, so it's important to differentiate between requests made in the top-level document content (whether to first-party or third-party origins) and those made in subframes.

       For example, if a top-level a.com document includes a that makes a fetchLater() request to analytics.example.com, this request would be bound by the top-level 512KiB limit. Alternatively, if the top-level document embeds an with a source of analytics.example.com that makes a fetchLater() request, that request would be bound by the 128KiB limit.

       QUOTA LIMITS BY REPORTING ORIGIN AND SUBFRAME

       Only 64KiB of the top-level 512KiB quota can be used concurrently for the same reporting origin (the request URL's origin). This prevents third-party libraries from reserving quota opportunistically before they have data to send.

       Each cross-origin subframe gets an 8KiB quota out of the shared 128KiB quota by default, allocated when the subframe is added to the DOM (whether fetchLater() will be used in that subframe or not). This means that, in general, only the first 16 cross-origin subframes added to a page can use fetchLater() as they will use up the 128KiB quota.

       INCREASING SUBFRAME QUOTAS BY SHARING THE TOP-LEVEL QUOTA

       The top-level origin can give selected cross-origin subframes an increased quota of 64KiB, taking it out of the larger top-level 512KiB limit. It does this by listing those origins in the deferred-fetch Permissions Policy directive. This is allocated when the subframe is added to the DOM, leaving less quota for the top-level document and direct same-origin subframes. Multiple same-origin subdomains can each get a 64KiB quota.

       RESTRICTING THE SHARED QUOTA

       The top-level origin can also restrict the 128KiB shared quota to named cross-origin subframes by listing those origins in the deferred-fetch-minimal Permissions Policy. It can also revoke the entire 128KiB default subframe quota and instead keep the full 640KiB quota for itself and any named deferred-fetch cross-origins by setting the deferred-fetch-minimal Permissions Policy to ().

       DELEGATING QUOTAS TO SUBFRAMES OF SUBFRAMES

       By default, subframes of subframes are not allocated a quota and so cannot use fetchLater(). Subframes allocated the increased 64KiB quota can delegate the full 64KiB quota to further subframes and allow them to use fetchLater() by setting their own deferred-fetch Permissions Policy. They can only delegate their full quota to further subframes, not parts of it, and cannot specify new quotas. Subframes using the minimal 8KiB quota cannot delegate quotas to subframes. To be delegated quota, sub-subframes must be included in both the top-level and the subframe deferred-fetch Permissions-Policy directives.

       WHEN QUOTAS ARE EXCEEDED

       When quotas are exceeded, a QuotaExceededError is thrown when the fetchLater() method is called to initiate the deferred request.

       Permissions Policy checks are not discernible from quota checks. Calling fetchLater() will throw a QuotaExceededError both if the quota is actually exceeded and if the quota was restricted for that origin via a Permissions Policy.

       Callers of fetchLater() should be defensive and catch QuotaExceededError errors in almost all cases, especially if they embed third-party JavaScript.

       QUOTA EXAMPLES

       USING UP THE MINIMAL QUOTA

         Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch=(self "https://b.com")

        1. A receives 64KiB upon being added to the top-level document, from the top-level's 512KiB limit.
        2. A is not listed and so receives 8KiB upon being added to the top-level document from the 128KiB shared limit.
        3. 15 more cross-origin iframes would each receive 8KiB upon being added to the top-level document (similar to c.com).
        4. The next cross-origin iframe would not be granted any quota.
        5. If one of the cross-origin iframes is removed, its deferred fetches will be sent.
        6. The next cross-origin iframe _would_ receive an 8KiB quota, as there is quota available again.

       REVOKE RESTRICTING THE MINIMAL QUOTA TO NAMED ORIGINS

         Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch-minimal=("https://b.com")

        1. receives 8KiB upon being added to the top-level document.
        2. receives no quota upon being added to the top-level document.
        3. The top-level document and its same-origin descendants can use up to 512KiB.

       REVOKING THE MINIMAL QUOTA ALTOGETHER WITH TOP-LEVEL EXCEPTIONS

         Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch=(self "https://b.com")
         Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch-minimal=()

        1. receives 64KiB upon being added to the top-level document.
        2. receives no quota upon being added to the top-level document.
        3. The top-level document and its same-origin descendants can use up to the full 640KiB but that is reduced to 574KiB if a b.com subframe is created (or even less if multiple b.com subframes are created, each of which will be allocated a 64KiB quota).

       REVOKING THE MINIMAL QUOTA ALTOGETHER WITH NO EXCEPTIONS

         Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch-minimal=()

        1. The top-level document and its same-origin descendants can use up the full 640KiB.
        2. Subframes are not allocated any quota and cannot use fetchLater().

       SAME-ORIGIN SUBFRAMES SHARE QUOTA WITH THE TOP-LEVEL AND CAN DELEGATE

       Assuming a top-level document on a.com, which embeds a subframe of a.com, which embeds a subframe of b.com, and no explicit Permission Policies.

        1. The top-level document of a.com has the default 512KiB quota.
        2. shares the 512KiB quota upon being added to the top-level document.
        3. receives an 8KiB quota upon being added to the top-level document.

       SAME-ORIGIN SUBFRAMES CAN NOT SHARE QUOTA WITH THE TOP-LEVEL WHEN SEPA

       Assuming a top-level document on a.com, which embeds a , which embeds a subframe of , and no explicit Permission Policies.

        1. The top-level document of a.com has the default 512KiB quota.
        2. shares the 8KiB quota.
        3. receives no quota; even though this is same-origin with the top origin, it is separated by a cross-origin.

       SECONDARY SUBFRAMES OF SUBFRAMES DO NOT GET QUOTA BY DEFAULT

       Assuming a top-level document on a.com, which embeds a , which embeds a , and no explicit Permission Policies.

        1. The top-level frame of a.com has the default 512KiB quota.
        2. receives 8KiB of the default shared quota.
        3. receives no quota.

       GRANTING THE FULL QUOTA TO A FURTHER SUBFRAME

       Assuming a top-level document on a.com, which embeds a , which embeds a .

       Assuming that a.com has the following Permissions Policy:

         Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch=("https://c.com" "https://c.com")

       And, assuming that b.com has the following Permissions Policy:

         Permissions-Policy: deferred-fetch=("https://c.com")

        1. The top-level frame of a.com has the default 512KiB quota.
        2. receives 64KiB of the default quota.
        3. delegates its full quota of 8KiB to c.com. b.com cannot use fetchLater().
        4. receives 8KiB of quota.

       REDIRECTS DO NOT TRANSFER QUOTA

       Assuming a top-level document on a.com, which embeds a , which redirects to c.com, and no explicit top-level Permission Policies.

        1. The top-level frame of a.com has the default 512KiB quota.
        2. receives 8KiB of the default shared quota.
        3. The 8KiB is not transferred to c.com when redirects to there, but the 8KiB is not released.

       SANDBOXED SAME-ORIGIN IFRAMES ARE EFFECTIVELY SEPARATE ORIGINS

       As an example, if the following is embedded on https://www.example.com:

         <iframe src="https://www.example.com/iframe" sandbox="allow-scripts"></iframe>

       This would not be considered "same-origin", despite being hosted on the same origin as the top-level document, as the is in a sandboxed environment. Therefore, by default, it should be allocated an 8KiB quota from the total shared 128KiB quota.

       DISALLOWING FETCHLATER() FROM IFRAMES

       You can use the allow attribute to prevent fetchLater() quota from being allocated to the :

         <iframe
           src="https://www.example.com/iframe"
           allow="deferred-fetch;deferred-fetch-minimal;"></iframe>

       The allow="deferred-fetch" directive is needed to prevent same-origin iframes from using up the 512KiB quota, and the allow="deferred-fetch-minimal" directive is needed to prevent cross-origin iframes from using up the 128KiB quota. Including both directives will prevent both quotas from being used, regardless of the src value.

       EXAMPLES WHICH THROW A QUOTAEXCEEDEDERROR

         // Maximum of 64KiB per origin
         const url = "<72KiB of characters>";
         fetchLater(url);

         // Maximum of 64KiB per origin including headers
         fetchLater("https://origin.example.com", { headers: headersExceeding64KiB });

         // Maximum of 64KiB per origin including body and headers
         fetchLater("<32KiB of characters>", { headers: headersExceeding32KiB });

         // Maximum of 64KiB per origin including body
         fetchLater("https://origin.example.com", {
           method: "POST",
           body: bodyExceeding64KiB,
         });

         // Maximum of 64KiB per origin including body and automatically added headers
         fetchLater("<62KiB of characters>" /* with a 3kb referrer */);

       EXAMPLES WHICH EVENTUALLY THROW A QUOTAEXCEEDEDERROR

       In the following sequence, contained in the top-level document, the first two requests would succeed, but the third would throw. That's because, even though the overall 640KiB quota was not exceeded, the third request exceeds the reporting-origin quota for https://a.example.com and would throw.

         fetchLater("https://a.example.com", { method: "POST", body: a40KiBBody });
         fetchLater("https://b.example.com", { method: "POST", body: a40KiBBody });
         fetchLater("https://a.example.com", { method: "POST", body: a40KiBBody });

       REDIRECTS OF SUBFRAMES BACK TO THE TOP-LEVEL ORIGIN ALLOW USE OF THE T

       Assuming a top-level document at a.com, which embeds , which redirects to a.com, and no explicit top-level Permission Policies:

        1. The top-level frame of a.com has the default 512KiB quota.
        2. receives 8KiB of the default shared quota of 128KiB.
        3. The 8KiB is not transferred to a.com when redirects there, but it can share the full top-level quota again, and the previously-allocated 8KiB quota is released.

Web APIs manual                         from the official documentation
