WEBAPI.HTMLMEDIAELEMENT-LOAD(1)  Sandbox manual  WEBAPI.HTMLMEDIAELEMENT-LOAD(1)

       NAME

       HTMLMediaElement: load() method - The HTMLMediaElement method

       HTMLMEDIAELEMENT: LOAD() METHOD

       The HTMLMediaElement method load() resets the media element to its initial state and begins the process of selecting a media source and loading the media in preparation for playback to begin at the beginning.

       The amount of media data that is prefetched is determined by the value of the element's preload attribute.

       This method is generally only useful when you've made dynamic changes to the set of sources available for the media element, either by changing the element's src attribute or by adding or removing elements nested within the media element itself. load() will reset the element and rescan the available sources, thereby causing the changes to take effect.

       SYNTAX

         load()

       PARAMETERS

       None.

       RETURN VALUE

       None (undefined).

       USAGE NOTES

       Calling load() aborts all ongoing operations involving this media element, then begins the process of selecting and loading an appropriate media resource given the options specified in the or element and its src attribute or child element(s). This is described in more detail in the HTML video and audio page.

       The process of aborting any ongoing activities will cause any outstanding Promises returned by play() being fulfilled or rejected as appropriate based on their status before the loading of new media can begin. Pending play promises are aborted with an "AbortError" DOMException.

       Appropriate events will be sent to the media element itself as the load process proceeds:

        * If the element is already in the process of loading media, that load process is
       aborted and the abort event is sent.

        * If the element has already been initialized with media, the
       emptied event is sent.

        * If resetting the playback position to the beginning of the media actually changes
       the playback position (that is, it was not already at the beginning), a timeupdate event is sent.

        * Once media has been selected and loading is ready to begin, the
       loadstart event is delivered.

        * From this point onward, events are sent just like any media load.

       EXAMPLES

       This example finds a element in the document and resets it by calling load().

         const mediaElem = document.querySelector("video");
         mediaElem.load();

       SPECIFICATIONS

       BROWSER COMPATIBILITY

Web APIs manual                         from the official documentation
