WEBAPI.NAVIGATOR-VIBRATE(1)      Sandbox manual      WEBAPI.NAVIGATOR-VIBRATE(1)

       NAME

       Navigator: vibrate() method - The vibrate() method of the Navigator interface pulses the vibration

       NAVIGATOR: VIBRATE() METHOD

       The vibrate() method of the Navigator interface pulses the vibration hardware on the device, if such hardware exists. If the device doesn't support vibration, this method has no effect. If a vibration pattern is already in progress when this method is called, the previous pattern is halted and the new one begins instead.

       If the method was unable to vibrate because of invalid parameters, it will return false, else it returns true. If the pattern leads to a too long vibration, it is truncated: the max length depends on the implementation.

       Some devices may not vibrate if they are in Silent mode or Do Not Disturb (DND) mode. To ensure vibration works, make sure these modes are turned off and that vibration is enabled in the system settings.

       SYNTAX

         vibrate(pattern)

       PARAMETERS

        * pattern
          * : Provides a pattern of vibration and pause intervals. Each value indicates a number
       of milliseconds to vibrate or pause, in alternation. You may provide either a single value (to vibrate once for that many milliseconds) or an array of values to alternately vibrate, pause, then vibrate again. See Vibration API for details.

       Passing a value of 0, an empty array, or an array containing all zeros will cancel any currently ongoing vibration pattern.

       RETURN VALUE

       A boolean.

       SECURITY

       Sticky user activation is required. The user has to interact with the page or a UI element in order for this feature to work.

       EXAMPLES

         navigator.vibrate(200); // vibrate for 200ms
         navigator.vibrate([
           100, 30, 100, 30, 100, 30, 200, 30, 200, 30, 200, 30, 100, 30, 100, 30, 100,
         ]); // Vibrate 'SOS' in Morse.

       SPECIFICATIONS

       BROWSER COMPATIBILITY

       SEE ALSO

        * Vibration API

Web APIs manual                         from the official documentation
