K8S.CONCEPTS-SECURITY-CLOUD-NATIVE-SECURITY(1) Sandbox manual K8S.CONCEPTS-SECURITY-CLOUD-NATIVE-SECURITY(1)

       NAME

       Cloud Native Security and Kubernetes - Kubernetes is based on a cloud native architecture and draws on advice from the

       CLOUD NATIVE SECURITY AND KUBERNETES

       Kubernetes is based on a cloud native architecture and draws on advice from the CNCF about good practices for cloud native information security.

       Read on for an overview of how Kubernetes is designed to help you deploy a secure cloud native platform.

       CLOUD NATIVE INFORMATION SECURITY

       There are localized versions available of this whitepaper; if you can link to one of those when localizing, that's even better.

       The CNCF white paper on cloud native security defines security controls and practices that are appropriate to different _lifecycle phases_.

       _DEVELOP_ LIFECYCLE PHASE #LIFECYCLE-PHASE-DEVELOP

        * Ensure the integrity of development environments.
        * Design applications following good practices for information security,
       appropriate for your context.

        * Consider end user security as part of solution design.
       To achieve this, you can:

        1. Adopt an architecture, such as zero trust,
       that minimizes attack surfaces, even for internal threats.

        1. Define a code review process that considers security concerns.
        1. Build a _threat model_ of your system or application that identifies
       trust boundaries. Use that threat model to identify risks and determine how to treat them.

        1. Incorporate advanced security automation, such as _fuzzing_ and
       security chaos engineering, where it's justified.

       _DISTRIBUTE_ LIFECYCLE PHASE #LIFECYCLE-PHASE-DISTRIBUTE

        * Ensure the security of the supply chain for container images you execute.
        * Ensure the security of the supply chain for the cluster and other components
       that execute your application. For example, this might include an external database that your cloud native application uses for persistence.

       To achieve this, you can:

        1. Scan container images and other artifacts for known vulnerabilities.
        1. Ensure that software distribution uses encryption in transit, with
       a chain of trust for the software source.

        1. Adopt and follow processes to update dependencies when updates are
       available, especially in response to security announcements.

        1. Use validation mechanisms such as digital certificates for supply
       chain assurance.

        1. Subscribe to feeds and other mechanisms to alert you to security
       risks.

        1. Restrict access to artifacts. Place container images in a
       private registry that only allows authorized clients to pull images.

       _DEPLOY_ LIFECYCLE PHASE #LIFECYCLE-PHASE-DEPLOY

       Ensure appropriate restrictions on what can be deployed, who can deploy it, and where it can be deployed. You can enforce measures from the _distribute_ phase, such as verifying the cryptographic identity of container image artifacts.

       You can deploy different applications and cluster components into different namespaces. Containers and namespaces both provide isolation mechanisms that are relevant to information security.

       When you deploy Kubernetes, you also set the foundation for your applications' runtime environment: a Kubernetes cluster (or multiple clusters). That infrastructure must provide the security guarantees that higher layers expect.

       _RUNTIME_ LIFECYCLE PHASE #LIFECYCLE-PHASE-RUNTIME

       The Runtime phase comprises three critical areas: access, compute, and storage.

       RUNTIME PROTECTION: ACCESS #PROTECTION-RUNTIME-ACCESS

       The Kubernetes API is what makes your cluster work. Protecting this API is key to providing effective cluster security.

       Other pages in the Kubernetes documentation have more detail about how to set up specific aspects of access control. The security checklist provides suggested basic checks for your cluster.

       Beyond that, securing your cluster means implementing effective authentication and authorization for API access. Use ServiceAccounts to provide and manage security identities for workloads and cluster components.

       Kubernetes uses TLS to protect API traffic; make sure to deploy the cluster using TLS (including for traffic between nodes and the control plane) and protect the encryption keys. If you use Kubernetes' own API for CertificateSigningRequests, pay special attention to restricting misuse there.

       RUNTIME PROTECTION: COMPUTE #PROTECTION-RUNTIME-COMPUTE

       Containers provide two things: isolation between applications and a mechanism to combine those isolated applications to run on the same host computer. Those two aspects—isolation and aggregation—mean that runtime security involves identifying trade-offs and finding an appropriate balance.

       Kubernetes relies on a container runtime to set up and run containers. The Kubernetes project does not recommend a specific container runtime, and you should make sure that the runtime(s) you choose meet your information security needs.

       To protect your compute at runtime, you can:

        1. Enforce Pod Security Standards
       for applications to help ensure they run with only the necessary privileges.

        1. Run a specialized operating system on your nodes that is designed specifically
       for running containerized workloads. This is typically based on a read-only operating system (_immutable image_) that provides only the services essential for running containers.

       Container-specific operating systems help isolate system components and present a reduced attack surface in case of a container escape.

        1. Define ResourceQuotas to
       fairly allocate shared resources, and use mechanisms such as LimitRanges to ensure that Pods specify their resource requirements.

        1. Partition workloads across different nodes to improve isolation.
       Use node isolation mechanisms, either from Kubernetes itself or from the ecosystem, to ensure that Pods with different trust contexts run on separate sets of nodes.

        1. Use a container runtime
       that provides security restrictions.

        1. On Linux nodes, use a Linux security module such as AppArmor
       or seccomp.

       RUNTIME PROTECTION: STORAGE #PROTECTION-RUNTIME-STORAGE

       To protect storage for your cluster and the applications that run there, you can:

        1. Integrate your cluster with an external storage plugin that provides encryption at
       rest for volumes.

        1. Enable encryption at rest for
       API objects.

        1. Protect data durability using backups, and verify that you can restore them whenever needed.
        1. Authenticate connections between cluster nodes and any network storage they rely
       upon.

        1. Implement data encryption within your own application.
       For encryption keys, generating these within specialized hardware provides the best protection against disclosure risks. A _hardware security module_ can let you perform cryptographic operations without allowing the security key to be copied elsewhere.

       NETWORKING AND SECURITY

       You should also consider network security measures, such as NetworkPolicy or a service mesh. Some network plugins for Kubernetes provide encryption for your cluster network using technologies such as a virtual private network (VPN) overlay. By design, Kubernetes lets you use your own networking plugin for your cluster. If you use managed Kubernetes, the provider may have already selected a network plugin for you.

       The network plugin you choose and the way you integrate it can have a strong impact on the security of information in transit.

       OBSERVABILITY AND RUNTIME SECURITY

       Kubernetes lets you extend your cluster with extra tooling. You can set up third party solutions to help you monitor or troubleshoot your applications and the clusters they are running. You also get some basic observability features built in to Kubernetes itself. Your code running in containers can generate logs, publish metrics, or provide other observability data; at deploy time, you need to make sure your cluster provides an appropriate level of protection there.

       If you set up a metrics dashboard or something similar, review the chain of components that populate data into that dashboard, as well as the dashboard itself. Make sure that the whole chain is designed with enough resilience and integrity protection that you can rely on it even during an incident where your cluster might be degraded.

       Where appropriate, deploy security measures below the Kubernetes layer, such as cryptographically measured boot or authenticated distribution of time (which helps ensure the fidelity of logs and audit records).

       For a high-assurance environment, deploy cryptographic protections to ensure that logs are both tamper-proof and confidential.

       ## WHATSNEXT

       CLOUD NATIVE SECURITY #FURTHER-READING-CLOUD-NATIVE

        * CNCF white paper
       on cloud native security.

        * CNCF white paper
       on good practices for securing a software supply chain.

        * Fixing the Kubernetes clusterf\*\*k: Understanding security from the kernel up (FOSDEM 2020)
        * Kubernetes Security Best Practices (Kubernetes Forum Seoul 2019)
        * Towards Measured Boot Out of the Box (Linux Security Summit 2016)

       KUBERNETES AND INFORMATION SECURITY #FURTHER-READING-K8S

        * Kubernetes security
        * Securing your cluster
        * Data encryption in transit for the control plane
        * Data encryption at rest
        * Secrets in Kubernetes
        * Controlling Access to the Kubernetes API
        * Network policies for Pods
        * Pod security standards
        * RuntimeClasses

Kubernetes manual                       from the official documentation
