K8S.CONCEPTS-API-EXTENSION-APISERVER-AGGREGATION(1) Sandbox manual K8S.CONCEPTS-API-EXTENSION-APISERVER-AGGREGATION(1)

       NAME

       Kubernetes API Aggregation Layer - The aggregation layer allows Kubernetes to be extended with additional APIs, beyond what is

       KUBERNETES API AGGREGATION LAYER

       The aggregation layer allows Kubernetes to be extended with additional APIs, beyond what is offered by the core Kubernetes APIs. The additional APIs can either be ready-made solutions such as a metrics server, or APIs that you develop yourself.

       The aggregation layer is different from Custom Resource Definitions, which are a way to make the kube-apiserver recognise new kinds of object.

       AGGREGATION LAYER

       The aggregation layer runs in-process with the kube-apiserver. Until an extension resource is registered, the aggregation layer will do nothing. To register an API, you add an _APIService_ object, which "claims" the URL path in the Kubernetes API. At that point, the aggregation layer will proxy anything sent to that API path (e.g. /apis/myextension.mycompany.io/v1/…) to the registered APIService.

       The most common way to implement the APIService is to run an extension API server in Pod(s) that run in your cluster. If you're using the extension API server to manage resources in your cluster, the extension API server (also written as "extension-apiserver") is typically paired with one or more controllers. The apiserver-builder library provides a skeleton for both extension API servers and the associated controller(s).

       RESPONSE LATENCY

       Extension API servers should have low latency networking to and from the kube-apiserver. Discovery requests are required to round-trip from the kube-apiserver in five seconds or less.

       If your extension API server cannot achieve that latency requirement, consider making changes that let you meet it.

       ## WHATSNEXT

        * To get the aggregator working in your environment, configure the aggregation layer.
        * Then, setup an extension api-server to work with the aggregation layer.
        * Read about APIService in the API reference
        * Learn about Declarative Validation Concepts,
       an internal mechanism for defining validation rules that in the future will help support validation for extension API server development.

       Alternatively: learn how to extend the Kubernetes API using Custom Resource Definitions.

Kubernetes manual                       from the official documentation
