K8S.SETUP-PRODUCTION-ENVIRONMENT-CONTAINER-RUNTIMES(1) Sandbox manual K8S.SETUP-PRODUCTION-ENVIRONMENT-CONTAINER-RUNTIMES(1)

       NAME

       sysctl params required by setup, params persist across reboots - You need to install a

       SYSCTL PARAMS REQUIRED BY SETUP, PARAMS PERSIST ACROSS REBOOTS

       You need to install a container runtime into each node in the cluster so that Pods can run there. This page outlines what is involved and describes related tasks for setting up nodes.

       Kubernetes requires that you use a runtime that conforms with the Container Runtime Interface (CRI).

       See CRI version support for more information.

       This page provides an outline of how to use several common container runtimes with Kubernetes.

        * containerd
        * CRI-O
        * Docker Engine
        * Mirantis Container Runtime
       > Note:
       Kubernetes releases before v1.24 included a direct integration with Docker Engine, using a component named _dockershim_. That special direct integration is no longer part of Kubernetes (this removal was announced as part of the v1.20 release). You can read Check whether Dockershim removal affects you to understand how this removal might affect you. To learn about migrating from using dockershim, see Migrating from dockershim.

       If you are running a version of Kubernetes other than v, check the documentation for that version.

       INSTALL AND CONFIGURE PREREQUISITES

       NETWORK CONFIGURATION

       By default, the Linux kernel does not allow IPv4 packets to be routed between interfaces. Most Kubernetes cluster networking implementations will change this setting (if needed), but some might expect the administrator to do it for them. (Some might also expect other sysctl parameters to be set, kernel modules to be loaded, etc; consult the documentation for your specific network implementation.)

       ENABLE IPV4 PACKET FORWARDING #PREREQUISITE-IPV4-FORWARDING-OPTIONAL

       To manually enable IPv4 packet forwarding:

         # sysctl params required by setup, params persist across reboots
         cat <<EOF | sudo tee /etc/sysctl.d/k8s.conf
         net.ipv4.ip_forward = 1
         EOF

         # Apply sysctl params without reboot
         sudo sysctl --system

       Verify that net.ipv4.ip_forward is set to 1 with:

         sysctl net.ipv4.ip_forward

       CGROUP DRIVERS

       On Linux, control groups are used to constrain resources that are allocated to processes.

       Both the kubelet and the underlying container runtime need to interface with control groups to enforce resource management for pods and containers and set resources such as cpu/memory requests and limits. To interface with control groups, the kubelet and the container runtime need to use a cgroup driver. It's critical that the kubelet and the container runtime use the same cgroup driver and are configured the same.

       There are two cgroup drivers available:

        * cgroupfs
        * systemd

       CGROUPFS DRIVER #CGROUPFS-CGROUP-DRIVER

       The cgroupfs driver is the default cgroup driver in the kubelet. When the cgroupfs driver is used, the kubelet and the container runtime directly interface with the cgroup filesystem to configure cgroups.

       The cgroupfs driver is not recommended when systemd is the init system because systemd expects a single cgroup manager on the system. Additionally, if you use cgroup v2, use the systemd cgroup driver instead of cgroupfs.

       SYSTEMD CGROUP DRIVER #SYSTEMD-CGROUP-DRIVER

       When systemd is chosen as the init system for a Linux distribution, the init process generates and consumes a root control group (cgroup) and acts as a cgroup manager.

       systemd has a tight integration with cgroups and allocates a cgroup per systemd unit. As a result, if you use systemd as the init system with the cgroupfs driver, the system gets two different cgroup managers.

       Two cgroup managers result in two views of the available and in-use resources in the system. In some cases, nodes that are configured to use cgroupfs for the kubelet and container runtime, but use systemd for the rest of the processes become unstable under resource pressure.

       The approach to mitigate this instability is to use systemd as the cgroup driver for the kubelet and the container runtime when systemd is the selected init system.

       To set systemd as the cgroup driver, edit the KubeletConfiguration option of cgroupDriver and set it to systemd. For example:

         apiVersion: kubelet.config.k8s.io/v1beta1
         kind: KubeletConfiguration
         ...
         cgroupDriver: systemd

       If you configure systemd as the cgroup driver for the kubelet, you must also configure systemd as the cgroup driver for the container runtime. Refer to the documentation for your container runtime for instructions. For example:

        * containerd
        * CRI-O
       In Kubernetes , with the KubeletCgroupDriverFromCRI feature gate enabled and a container runtime that supports the RuntimeConfig CRI RPC, the kubelet automatically detects the appropriate cgroup driver from the runtime, and ignores the cgroupDriver setting within the kubelet configuration.

       However, older versions of container runtimes (specifically, containerd 1.y and below) do not support the RuntimeConfig CRI RPC, and may not respond correctly to this query, and thus the Kubelet falls back to using the value in its own --cgroup-driver flag.

       In Kubernetes 1.38, this fallback behavior will be dropped, and older versions of containerd will fail with newer kubelets.

       > Note:
       Changing the cgroup driver of a Node that has joined a cluster is a sensitive operation. If the kubelet has created Pods using the semantics of one cgroup driver, changing the container runtime to another cgroup driver can cause errors when trying to re-create the Pod sandbox for such existing Pods. Restarting the kubelet may not solve such errors.

       If you have automation that makes it feasible, replace the node with another using the updated configuration, or reinstall it using automation.

       CRI VERSION SUPPORT #CRI-VERSIONS

       Your container runtime must support v1 of the container runtime interface.

       Kubernetes starting v1.26 _only works_ with v1 of the CRI API. If a container runtime does not support the v1 API, the kubelet will not register as a node.

       CONTAINER RUNTIMES

       CONTAINERD

       This section outlines the necessary steps to use containerd as CRI runtime.

       To install containerd on your system, follow the instructions on getting started with containerd. Return to this step once you've created a valid config.toml configuration file.

       You can find this file under the path /etc/containerd/config.toml.

       You can find this file under the path C:\Program Files\containerd\config.toml.

       On Linux the default CRI socket for containerd is /run/containerd/containerd.sock. On Windows the default CRI endpoint is npipe://./pipe/containerd-containerd.

       CONFIGURING THE SYSTEMD CGROUP DRIVER #CONTAINERD-SYSTEMD

       To use the systemd cgroup driver in /etc/containerd/config.toml with runc, set the following config based on your Containerd version

       Containerd versions 1.x:

         [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".containerd.runtimes.runc]
           ...
           [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri".containerd.runtimes.runc.options]
             SystemdCgroup = true

       Containerd versions 2.x:

         [plugins.'io.containerd.cri.v1.runtime'.containerd.runtimes.runc]
           ...
           [plugins.'io.containerd.cri.v1.runtime'.containerd.runtimes.runc.options]
             SystemdCgroup = true

       The systemd cgroup driver is recommended if you use cgroup v2.

       > Note:
       If you installed containerd from a package (for example, RPM or .deb), you may find that the CRI integration plugin is disabled by default.

       You need CRI support enabled to use containerd with Kubernetes. Make sure that cri is not included in thedisabled_plugins list within /etc/containerd/config.toml; if you made changes to that file, also restart containerd.

       If you experience container crash loops after the initial cluster installation or after installing a CNI, the containerd configuration provided with the package might contain incompatible configuration parameters. Consider resetting the containerd configuration with containerd config default > /etc/containerd/config.toml as specified in getting-started.md and then set the configuration parameters specified above accordingly.

       If you apply this change, make sure to restart containerd:

         sudo systemctl restart containerd

       In Kubernetes v1.28, you can enable automatic detection of the cgroup driver as an alpha feature. See systemd cgroup driver for more details.

       OVERRIDING THE SANDBOX (PAUSE) IMAGE #OVERRIDE-PAUSE-IMAGE-CONTAINERD

       In your containerd config you can overwrite the sandbox image by setting the following config:

         [plugins."io.containerd.grpc.v1.cri"]
           sandbox_image = "registry.k8s.io/pause:3.10"

       You might need to restart containerd as well once you've updated the config file: systemctl restart containerd.

       CRI-O

       This section contains the necessary steps to install CRI-O as a container runtime.

       To install CRI-O, follow CRI-O Install Instructions.

       CGROUP DRIVER

       CRI-O uses the systemd cgroup driver per default, which is likely to work fine for you. To switch to the cgroupfs cgroup driver, either edit /etc/crio/crio.conf or place a drop-in configuration in /etc/crio/crio.conf.d/02-cgroup-manager.conf, for example:

         [crio.runtime]
         conmon_cgroup = "pod"
         cgroup_manager = "cgroupfs"

       You should also note the changed conmon_cgroup, which has to be set to the value pod when using CRI-O with cgroupfs. It is generally necessary to keep the cgroup driver configuration of the kubelet (usually done via kubeadm) and CRI-O in sync.

       In Kubernetes v1.28, you can enable automatic detection of the cgroup driver as an alpha feature. See systemd cgroup driver for more details.

       For CRI-O, the CRI socket is /var/run/crio/crio.sock by default.

       OVERRIDING THE SANDBOX (PAUSE) IMAGE #OVERRIDE-PAUSE-IMAGE-CRI-O

       In your CRI-O config you can set the following config value:

         [crio.image]
         pause_image="registry.k8s.io/pause:3.10"

       This config option supports live configuration reload to apply this change: systemctl reload crio or by sending SIGHUP to the crio process.

       DOCKER ENGINE #DOCKER

       > Note:
       These instructions assume that you are using the cri-dockerd adapter to integrate Docker Engine with Kubernetes.

        1. On each of your nodes, install Docker for your Linux distribution as per
       Install Docker Engine.

        2. Install cri-dockerd, following the directions in the install section of the documentation.
       For cri-dockerd, the CRI socket is /run/cri-dockerd.sock by default.

       MIRANTIS CONTAINER RUNTIME #MCR

       Mirantis Container Runtime (MCR) is a commercially available container runtime that was formerly known as Docker Enterprise Edition.

       You can use Mirantis Container Runtime with Kubernetes using the open source cri-dockerd component, included with MCR.

       To learn more about how to install Mirantis Container Runtime, visit MCR Deployment Guide.

       Check the systemd unit named cri-docker.socket to find out the path to the CRI socket.

       OVERRIDING THE SANDBOX (PAUSE) IMAGE #OVERRIDE-PAUSE-IMAGE-CRI-DOCKERD

       The cri-dockerd adapter accepts a command line argument for specifying which container image to use as the Pod infrastructure container (“pause image”). The command line argument to use is --pod-infra-container-image.

       ## WHATSNEXT

       As well as a container runtime, your cluster will need a working network plugin.

Kubernetes manual                       from the official documentation
