K8S.TASKS-CONFIGURE-POD-CONTAINER-EXTENDED-RESOURCE(1) Sandbox manual K8S.TASKS-CONFIGURE-POD-CONTAINER-EXTENDED-RESOURCE(1)

       NAME

       Assign Extended Resources to a Container - This page shows how to assign extended resources to a Container.

       ASSIGN EXTENDED RESOURCES TO A CONTAINER

       This page shows how to assign extended resources to a Container.

       ## PREREQUISITES

       Before you do this exercise, do the exercise in Advertise Extended Resources for a Node. That will configure one of your Nodes to advertise a dongle resource.

       ASSIGN AN EXTENDED RESOURCE TO A POD

       To request an extended resource, include the resources.requests. field in the container manifest. *.kubernetes.io/. Valid extended resource names have the form example.com/foo where example.com is replaced with your organization's domain and foo is a descriptive resource name.

       Here is the configuration file for a Pod that has one Container:

         apiVersion: v1
         kind: Pod
         metadata:
           name: extended-resource-demo
         spec:
           containers:
           - name: extended-resource-demo-ctr
             image: nginx
             resources:
               requests:
                 example.com/dongle: 3
               limits:
                 example.com/dongle: 3

       In the configuration file, you can see that the Container requests 3 dongles.

       Create a Pod:

         kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/pods/resource/extended-resource-pod.yaml

       Verify that the Pod is running:

         kubectl get pod extended-resource-demo

       Describe the Pod:

         kubectl describe pod extended-resource-demo

       The output shows dongle requests:

         Limits:
           example.com/dongle: 3
         Requests:
           example.com/dongle: 3

       ATTEMPT TO CREATE A SECOND POD

       Here is the configuration file for a Pod that has one Container. The Container requests two dongles.

         apiVersion: v1
         kind: Pod
         metadata:
           name: extended-resource-demo-2
         spec:
           containers:
           - name: extended-resource-demo-2-ctr
             image: nginx
             resources:
               requests:
                 example.com/dongle: 2
               limits:
                 example.com/dongle: 2

       Kubernetes will not be able to satisfy the request for two dongles, because the first Pod used three of the four available dongles.

       Attempt to create a Pod:

         kubectl apply -f https://k8s.io/examples/pods/resource/extended-resource-pod-2.yaml

       Describe the Pod

         kubectl describe pod extended-resource-demo-2

       The output shows that the Pod cannot be scheduled, because there is no Node that has 2 dongles available:

         Conditions:
           Type    Status
           PodScheduled  False
         ...
         Events:
           ...
           ... Warning   FailedScheduling  pod (extended-resource-demo-2) failed to fit in any node
         fit failure summary on nodes : Insufficient example.com/dongle (1)

       View the Pod status:

         kubectl get pod extended-resource-demo-2

       The output shows that the Pod was created, but not scheduled to run on a Node. It has a status of Pending:

         NAME                       READY     STATUS    RESTARTS   AGE
         extended-resource-demo-2   0/1       Pending   0          6m

       CLEAN UP

       Delete the Pods that you created for this exercise:

         kubectl delete pod extended-resource-demo
         kubectl delete pod extended-resource-demo-2

       EXTENDED RESOURCES BACKED BY DRA

       The exercise above uses an extended resource that a Node advertises. Extended resources can also be backed by Dynamic Resource Allocation (DRA): a DeviceClass sets an extendedResourceName, and the scheduler satisfies matching extended-resource requests using DRA devices instead of Node-advertised capacity.

       A Pod requests the resource the same way in both cases — through resources.requests. — so a workload does not need to know whether a device plugin or DRA provides it. The same resource name can even be provided by a device plugin on some Nodes and by DRA on others.

       For the DeviceClass setup and examples, see Extended resource allocation by DRA.

       ## WHATSNEXT

       FOR APPLICATION DEVELOPERS

        * Assign Memory Resources to Containers and Pods
        * Assign CPU Resources to Containers and Pods

       FOR CLUSTER ADMINISTRATORS

        * Advertise Extended Resources for a Node

Kubernetes manual                       from the official documentation
