K8S.TASKS-CONFIGMAP-SECRET-MANAGING-SECRET-USING-KUSTOMIZE(1) Sandbox manual K8S.TASKS-CONFIGMAP-SECRET-MANAGING-SECRET-USING-KUSTOMIZE(1)

       NAME

       Managing Secrets using Kustomize - kubectl supports using the Kustomize object management tool to manage Secrets

       MANAGING SECRETS USING KUSTOMIZE

       kubectl supports using the Kustomize object management tool to manage Secrets and ConfigMaps. You create a resource generator using Kustomize, which generates a Secret that you can apply to the API server using kubectl.

       ## PREREQUISITES

       CREATE A SECRET

       You can generate a Secret by defining a secretGenerator in a kustomization.yaml file that references other existing files, .env files, or literal values. For example, the following instructions create a kustomization file for the username admin and the password 1f2d1e2e67df.

       > Note:
       The stringData field for a Secret does not work well with server-side apply.

       CREATE THE KUSTOMIZATION FILE

       secretGenerator:

        * name: database-creds
       literals:

          * username=admin
          * password=1f2d1e2e67df
        1. Store the credentials in files. The filenames are the keys of the secret:

             echo -n 'admin' > ./username.txt
             echo -n '1f2d1e2e67df' > ./password.txt

       The -n flag ensures that there's no newline character at the end of your files.

        1. Create the kustomization.yaml file:

             secretGenerator:
             - name: database-creds
               files:
               - username.txt
               - password.txt

       You can also define the secretGenerator in the kustomization.yaml file by providing .env files. For example, the following kustomization.yaml file pulls in data from an .env.secret file:

         secretGenerator:
         - name: db-user-pass
           envs:
           - .env.secret

       In all cases, you don't need to encode the values in base64. The name of the YAML file must be kustomization.yaml or kustomization.yml.

       APPLY THE KUSTOMIZATION FILE

       To create the Secret, apply the directory that contains the kustomization file:

         kubectl apply -k <directory-path>

       The output is similar to:

         secret/database-creds-5hdh7hhgfk created

       When a Secret is generated, the Secret name is created by hashing the Secret data and appending the hash value to the name. This ensures that a new Secret is generated each time the data is modified.

       To verify that the Secret was created and to decode the Secret data,

         kubectl get -k <directory-path> -o jsonpath='{.data}'

       The output is similar to:

         { "password": "MWYyZDFlMmU2N2Rm", "username": "YWRtaW4=" }

         echo 'MWYyZDFlMmU2N2Rm' | base64 --decode

       The output is similar to:

         1f2d1e2e67df

       For more information, refer to Managing Secrets using kubectl and Declarative Management of Kubernetes Objects Using Kustomize.

       EDIT A SECRET #EDIT-SECRET

        1. In your kustomization.yaml file, modify the data, such as the password.
        1. Apply the directory that contains the kustomization file:

             kubectl apply -k <directory-path>

       The output is similar to:

             secret/db-user-pass-6f24b56cc8 created

       The edited Secret is created as a new Secret object, instead of updating the existing Secret object. You might need to update references to the Secret in your Pods.

       CLEAN UP

       To delete a Secret, use kubectl:

         kubectl delete secret db-user-pass

       ## WHATSNEXT

        * Read more about the Secret concept
        * Learn how to manage Secrets using kubectl
        * Learn how to manage Secrets using config file

Kubernetes manual                       from the official documentation
