DOCKER.COMPOSE-BRIDGE-USAGE(1)   Sandbox manual   DOCKER.COMPOSE-BRIDGE-USAGE(1)

       NAME

       Use the default Compose Bridge transformation - Compose Bridge includes a built-in transformation that automatically converts your Compose configuration into a set of Kubernetes manifests.

       USE THE DEFAULT COMPOSE BRIDGE TRANSFORMATION

       Compose Bridge includes a built-in transformation that automatically converts your Compose configuration into a set of Kubernetes manifests.

       Based on your compose.yaml file, it produces:

        * A Namespace so all your resources are isolated and don't conflict with resources from other deployments.
        * A ConfigMap with an entry for each and every config resource in your Compose application.
        * Deployments for application services. This ensures that the specified number of instances of your application are maintained in the Kubernetes cluster.
        * Services for ports exposed by your services, used for service-to-service communication.
        * Services for ports published by your services, with type LoadBalancer so that Docker Desktop will also expose the same port on the host.
        * Network policies to replicate the networking topology defined in your compose.yaml file.
        * PersistentVolumeClaims for your volumes, using hostpath storage class so that Docker Desktop manages volume creation.
        * Secrets with your secret encoded. This is designed for local use in a testing environment.
       It also supplies a Kustomize overlay dedicated to Docker Desktop with:

        * Loadbalancer for services which need to expose ports on host.
        * A PersistentVolumeClaim to use the Docker Desktop storage provisioner desktop-storage-provisioner to handle volume provisioning more effectively.
        * A Kustomization.yaml file to link all the resources together.
       If your Compose file defines a models section for a service, Compose Bridge automatically configures your deployment so your service can locate and use its models via Docker Model Runner.

       For each declared model, the transformation injects two environment variables:

        * _URL: The endpoint for Docker Model Runner serving that model
        * _MODEL: The model’s name or identifier
       You can optionally customize these variable names using endpoint_var and model_var.

       The default transformation generates two different overlays - one for Docker Desktop whilst using a local instance of Docker Model Runner, and a model-runner overlay with all the relevant Kubernetes resources to deploy Docker Model Runner in a pod.

         Environment  |  Endpoint
         Docker Desktop  |  http://host.docker.internal:12434/engines/v1/
         Kubernetes  |  http://model-runner/engines/v1/
       For more details, see Use Model Runner.

       USE THE DEFAULT COMPOSE BRIDGE TRANSFORMATION

       To convert your Compose file using the default transformation:

         $ docker compose bridge convert

       Compose looks for a compose.yaml file inside the current directory and generates Kubernetes manifests.

       Example output:

         $ docker compose -f compose.yaml bridge convert
         Kubernetes resource backend-deployment.yaml created
         Kubernetes resource frontend-deployment.yaml created
         Kubernetes resource backend-expose.yaml created
         Kubernetes resource frontend-expose.yaml created
         Kubernetes resource 0-my-project-namespace.yaml created
         Kubernetes resource default-network-policy.yaml created
         Kubernetes resource backend-service.yaml created
         Kubernetes resource frontend-service.yaml created
         Kubernetes resource kustomization.yaml created
         Kubernetes resource backend-deployment.yaml created
         Kubernetes resource frontend-deployment.yaml created
         Kubernetes resource backend-service.yaml created
         Kubernetes resource frontend-service.yaml created
         Kubernetes resource kustomization.yaml created
         Kubernetes resource model-runner-configmap.yaml created
         Kubernetes resource model-runner-deployment.yaml created
         Kubernetes resource model-runner-service.yaml created
         Kubernetes resource model-runner-volume-claim.yaml created
         Kubernetes resource kustomization.yaml created

       All generated files are stored in the /out directory in your project.

       DEPLOY THE GENERATED MANIFESTS

       > Before you deploy your Compose Bridge transformations, make sure you have enabled Kubernetes in Docker Desktop.
       Once the manifests are generated, deploy them to your local Kubernetes cluster:

         $ kubectl apply -k out/overlays/desktop/

       > You can convert and deploy your Compose project to a Kubernetes cluster from the Compose file viewer.
       > Make sure you are signed in to your Docker account, navigate to your container in the Containers view, and in the top-right corner select View configurations and then Convert and Deploy to Kubernetes.

       ADDITIONAL COMMANDS

       Convert a compose.yaml file located in another directory:

         $ docker compose -f <path-to-file>/compose.yaml bridge convert

       To see all available flags, run:

         $ docker compose bridge convert --help

       WHAT'S NEXT

        * Explore how you can customize Compose Bridge
        * Use Model Runner.

Docker manual                           from the official documentation
