CSHARP.FROM-CLAUSE(1)            Sandbox manual            CSHARP.FROM-CLAUSE(1)

       NAME

       from clause (C# Reference) - from clause - C# Reference

       FROM CLAUSE (C# REFERENCE)

       A query expression must begin with a from clause. Additionally, a query expression can contain subqueries, which also begin with a from clause. The from clause specifies the following:

        * The data source on which the query or subquery runs.
        * A local range variable that represents each element in the source sequence.
       Both the range variable and the data source are strongly typed. The data source referenced in the from clause must have a type of IEnumerable, IEnumerable1, or a derived type such as IQueryable1.

       In the following example, numbers is the data source and num is the range variable. Note that both variables are strongly typed even though the var keyword is used.

       THE RANGE VARIABLE

       The compiler infers the type of the range variable when the data source implements IEnumerable1. For example, if the source has a type of IEnumerable, then the range variable is inferred to be Customer. You must specify the type explicitly only when the source is a non-generic IEnumerable type such as ArrayList. For more information, see How to query an ArrayList with LINQ.

       In the previous example, num is inferred to be of type int. Because the range variable is strongly typed, you can call methods on it or use it in other operations. For example, instead of writing select num, you could write select num.ToString() to cause the query expression to return a sequence of strings instead of integers. Or you could write select num + 10 to cause the expression to return the sequence 14, 11, 13, 12, 10. For more information, see select clause.

       The range variable is like an iteration variable in a foreach statement except for one very important difference: a range variable never actually stores data from the source. It's just a syntactic convenience that enables the query to describe what occurs when the query is executed. For more information, see Introduction to LINQ Queries (C#).

       COMPOUND FROM CLAUSES

       In some cases, each element in the source sequence might itself be either a sequence or contain a sequence. For example, your data source might be an IEnumerable where each student object in the sequence contains a list of test scores. To access the inner list within each Student element, you can use compound from clauses. The technique is like using nested foreach statements. You can add where or orderby clauses to either from clause to filter the results. The following example shows a sequence of Student objects, each of which contains an inner List of integers representing test scores. To access the inner list, use a compound from clause. You can insert clauses between the two from clauses if necessary.

       USING MULTIPLE FROM CLAUSES TO PERFORM JOINS

       Use a compound from clause to access inner collections in a single data source. However, a query can also contain multiple from clauses that generate supplemental queries from independent data sources. By using this technique, you can perform certain types of join operations that aren't possible by using the join clause.

       The following example shows how two from clauses form a complete cross join of two data sources.

       For more information about join operations that use multiple from clauses, see Perform left outer joins.

       SEE ALSO

        * Query Keywords (LINQ)
        * Language Integrated Query (LINQ)

C# manual                               from the official documentation
