CSHARP.GROUP-CLAUSE(1)           Sandbox manual           CSHARP.GROUP-CLAUSE(1)

       NAME

       group clause (C# Reference) - group clause - C# Reference

       GROUP CLAUSE (C# REFERENCE)

       The group clause returns a sequence of IGrouping2 objects. The sequence contains zero or more items that match the key value for the group. For example, you can group a sequence of strings according to the first letter in each string. In this case, the first letter is the key and has a type char. Each IGrouping2 object stores this key in its Key property. The compiler infers the type of the key.

       You can end a query expression with a group clause, as shown in the following example:

       If you want to perform additional query operations on each group, specify a temporary identifier by using the into contextual keyword. When you use into, you must continue with the query, and eventually end it with either a select statement or another group clause, as shown in the following excerpt:

       More complete examples of the use of group with and without into are provided in the Example section of this article.

       ENUMERATING THE RESULTS OF A GROUP QUERY

       Because the IGrouping2 objects that a group query produces are essentially a list of lists, you must use a nested foreach loop to access the items in each group. The outer loop iterates over the group keys, and the inner loop iterates over each item in the group itself. A group can have a key but no elements. The following foreach loop executes the query in the previous code examples:

       KEY TYPES

       Group keys can be any type, such as a string, a built-in numeric type, or a user-defined named type or anonymous type.

       GROUPING BY STRING

       The previous code examples used a char. You can also specify a string key, such as the complete last name:

       GROUPING BY BOOL

       The following example uses a bool value for a key to divide the results into two groups. The value comes from a sub-expression in the group clause.

       GROUPING BY NUMERIC RANGE

       The next example uses an expression to create numeric group keys that represent a percentile range. It uses let to store a method call result, so you don't have to call the method twice in the group clause. For more information about how to safely use methods in query expressions, see Handle exceptions in query expressions.

       GROUPING BY COMPOSITE KEYS

       Use a composite key when you want to group elements by more than one key. Create a composite key by using an anonymous type or a named type to hold the key element. In the following example, assume that a class Person has members named surname and city. The group clause creates a separate group for each set of persons with the same last name and the same city.

         group person by new {name = person.surname, city = person.city};

       Use a named type if you need to pass the query variable to another method. Create a special class with automatically implemented properties for the keys, and then override the Equals* and GetHashCode* methods. You can also use a struct, which doesn't strictly require those method overrides. For more information, see How to implement a lightweight class with automatically implemented properties and How to query for duplicate files in a directory tree. The latter article has a code example that demonstrates how to use a composite key with a named type.

       EXAMPLES

       The following example shows the standard pattern for ordering source data into groups when you don't apply any extra query logic to the groups. This pattern is called grouping without a continuation. The example groups the elements in an array of strings according to their first letter. The result of the query is an IGrouping2 type that contains a public Key property of type char and an IEnumerable1 collection that contains each item in the grouping.

       The result of a group clause is a sequence of sequences. To access the individual elements within each returned group, use a nested foreach loop inside the loop that iterates the group keys, as shown in the following example.

       The following example shows how to perform extra logic on the groups after you create them, by using a continuation with into. For more information, see into. The following example queries each group to select only those whose key value is a vowel.

       At compile time, the compiler translates group clauses into calls to the GroupBy* method.

       The syntax of group clause query doesn't support custom equality comparer. If you want to use IEqualityComparer in your query, explicitly use the GroupBy* method.

       SEE ALSO

        * IGrouping2
        * GroupBy*
        * ThenBy*
        * ThenByDescending*
        * Query Keywords
        * Language Integrated Query (LINQ)
        * Create a nested group
        * Group query results
        * Perform a subquery on a grouping operation

C# manual                               from the official documentation
