CSHARP.GUIDE-AUTO-IMPLEMENTED-PROPERTIES(1) Sandbox manual CSHARP.GUIDE-AUTO-IMPLEMENTED-PROPERTIES(1)

       NAME

       Automatically implemented properties - For an automatically implemented property in C#, the compiler creates a private, anonymous backing field accessed only through get and set a

       AUTOMATICALLY IMPLEMENTED PROPERTIES

       Automatically implemented properties make property-declaration more concise when no other logic is required in the property accessors. They also enable client code to create objects. When you declare a property as shown in the following example, the compiler creates a private, anonymous backing field that can only be accessed through the property's get and set accessors. init accessors can also be declared as automatically implemented properties.

       The following example shows a simple class that has some automatically implemented properties:

       You can't declare automatically implemented properties in interfaces. Automatically implemented and field backed properties declare a private instance backing field, and interfaces can't declare instance fields. Declaring a property in an interface without defining a body declares a property with accessors. Each type that implements that interface must implement that property.

       You can initialize automatically implemented properties similarly to fields:

         public string FirstName { get; set; } = "Jane";

       The class that is shown in the previous example is mutable. Client code can change the values in objects after creation. In complex classes that contain significant behavior (methods) and data, it's often necessary to have public properties. However, for small classes or structs that just encapsulate a set of values (data) and have little or no behaviors, you should use one of the following options for making the objects immutable:

        * Declare only a get accessor (immutable everywhere except the constructor).
        * Declare a get accessor and an init accessor (immutable everywhere except during object construction).
        * Declare the set accessor as private (immutable to consumers).
       For more information, see How to implement a lightweight class with automatically implemented properties.

       You might need to add validation to an automatically implemented property. C# 14 adds field backed properties. You use the field keyword to access the compiler synthesized backing field of an automatically implemented property. For example, you could ensure that the FirstName property in the preceding example can't be set to null or the empty string:

         public string FirstName
         {
             get;
             set
             {
                 field = (string.IsNullOrWhiteSpace(value) is false
                     ? value
                     : throw new ArgumentException(nameof(value), "First name can't be whitespace or null"));
             }
         } = "Jane";

       This feature enables you to add logic to accessors without requiring you to explicitly declare the backing field. You use the field keyword to access the backing field generated by the compiler.

       SEE ALSO

        * Use auto-implemented properties (style rule IDE0032)
        * Properties
        * Modifiers

C# manual                               from the official documentation
