CSHARP.GUIDE-NESTED-TYPES(1)     Sandbox manual     CSHARP.GUIDE-NESTED-TYPES(1)

       NAME

       Nested types (C# programming guide) - A type defined within a class, struct, or interface is called a nested type in C#.

       NESTED TYPES (C# PROGRAMMING GUIDE)

       A nested type is a type that you define within a class, struct, or interface. For example:

       Regardless of whether the outer type is a class, interface, or struct, nested types default to private. You can access them only from their containing type. In the preceding example, external types can't access the Nested class.

       You can also specify an access modifier to define the accessibility of a nested type, as follows:

        * Nested types of a class can be public, protected, internal, protected internal, private, or private protected.
       However, defining a protected, protected internal, or private protected nested class inside a sealed class generates compiler warning CS0628, "new protected member declared in sealed class."

       Also be aware that making a nested type externally visible violates the code quality rule CA1034 "Nested types should not be visible".

        * Nested types of a struct can be public, internal, or private.
       The following example makes the Nested class public:

       The nested, or inner, type can access the containing, or outer, type. To access the containing type, pass it as an argument to the constructor of the nested type. For example:

       A nested type has access to all of the members that are accessible to its containing type. It can access private and protected members of the containing type, including any inherited protected members.

       In the previous declaration, the full name of class Nested is Container.Nested. This is the name used to create a new instance of the nested class, as follows:

       SEE ALSO

        * The C# type system
        * Access Modifiers
        * Constructors
        * CA1034 rule

C# manual                               from the official documentation
