CSHARP.GUIDE-USING-CONSTRUCTORS(1) Sandbox manual CSHARP.GUIDE-USING-CONSTRUCTORS(1)

       NAME

       Use constructors (C# programming guide) - This example shows how a class is instantiated by using the new operator in C#. The simple constructor is invoked after memory is allocated

       USE CONSTRUCTORS (C# PROGRAMMING GUIDE)

       When a class or struct is instantiated, the runtime calls its constructor. Constructors have the same name as the class or struct, and they usually initialize the data members of the new object.

       In the following example, a class named Taxi is defined by using a simple constructor. This class is then instantiated with the new operator. The runtime invokes the Taxi constructor immediately after memory is allocated for the new object.

       A constructor that takes no parameters is called a parameterless constructor. The runtime invokes the parameterless constructor when an object is instantiated using the new operator and no arguments are provided to new. C# 12 introduced primary constructors. A primary constructor specifies parameters that must be provided to initialize a new object. For more information, see Instance Constructors.

       Unless the class is static, classes without constructors are given a public parameterless constructor by the C# compiler in order to enable class instantiation. For more information, see Static Classes and Static Class Members.

       You can prevent a class from being instantiated by making the constructor private, as follows:

       For more information, see Private Constructors.

       Constructors for struct types resemble class constructors. When a struct type is instantiated with new, the runtime invokes a constructor. When a struct is set to its default value, the runtime initializes all memory in the struct to 0. If you declare any field initializers in a struct type, you must supply a parameterless constructor. For more information, see the Struct initialization and default values section of the Structure types article.

       The following code uses the parameterless constructor for Int32, so that you're assured that the integer is initialized:

         int i = new int();
         Console.WriteLine(i);

       The following code, however, causes a compiler error because it doesn't use new, and because it tries to use an object that isn't initialized:

         int i;
         Console.WriteLine(i);

       Alternatively, some struct types (including all built-in numeric types) can be initialized or assigned and then used as in the following example:

         int a = 44;  // Initialize the value type...
         int b;
         b = 33;      // Or assign it before using it.
         Console.WriteLine("{0}, {1}", a, b);

       Both classes and structs can define constructors that take parameters, including primary constructors. Constructors that take parameters must be called through a new statement or a base statement. Classes and structs can also define multiple constructors, and neither is required to define a parameterless constructor. For example:

       This class can be created by using either of the following statements:

       A constructor can use the base keyword to call the constructor of a base class. For example:

       In this example, the constructor for the base class is called before the block for the constructor executes. The base keyword can be used with or without parameters. Any parameters to the constructor can be used as parameters to base, or as part of an expression. For more information, see base.

       In a derived class, if a base-class constructor isn't called explicitly by using the base keyword, the parameterless constructor, if there's one, is called implicitly. The following constructor declarations are effectively the same:

       If a base class doesn't offer a parameterless constructor, the derived class must make an explicit call to a base constructor by using base.

       A constructor can invoke another constructor in the same object by using the this keyword. Like base, this can be used with or without parameters, and any parameters in the constructor are available as parameters to this, or as part of an expression. For example, the second constructor in the previous example can be rewritten using this:

       The use of the this keyword in the previous example causes the following constructor to be called:

       Constructors can be marked as public, private, protected, internal, protected internal or private protected. These access modifiers define how users of the class can construct the class. For more information, see Access Modifiers.

       A constructor can be declared static by using the static keyword. Static constructors are called automatically, before any static fields are accessed, and are used to initialize static class members. For more information, see Static Constructors.

       C# LANGUAGE SPECIFICATION

       For more information, see [Instance constructors] and [Static constructors] in the [C# Language Specification]. The language specification is the definitive source for C# syntax and usage.

       SEE ALSO

        * The C# type system
        * Constructors
        * Finalizers

C# manual                               from the official documentation
