CSHARP.IN-GENERIC-MODIFIER(1)    Sandbox manual    CSHARP.IN-GENERIC-MODIFIER(1)

       NAME

       `in` (Generic Modifier) (C# Reference) - in (Generic Modifier) - C# Reference

       IN (GENERIC MODIFIER) (C# REFERENCE)

       For generic type parameters, use the in keyword to allow contravariant type arguments. Use the in keyword in generic interfaces and delegates.

       Contravariance enables you to use a less derived type than the type specified by the generic parameter. This feature allows for implicit conversion of classes that implement contravariant interfaces and implicit conversion of delegate types. Reference types support covariance and contravariance in generic type parameters, but value types don't support these features.

       You can declare a type as contravariant in a generic interface or delegate only if it defines the type of a method's parameters and not the method's return type. In, ref, and out parameters must be invariant, meaning they're neither covariant nor contravariant.

       An interface that has a contravariant type parameter allows its methods to accept arguments of less derived types than those specified by the interface type parameter. For example, in the IComparer1 interface, type T is contravariant. You can assign an object of the IComparer type to an object of the IComparer type without using any special conversion methods if Employee inherits Person.

       You can assign a contravariant delegate to another delegate of the same type, but with a less derived generic type parameter.

       For more information, see Covariance and Contravariance.

       CONTRAVARIANT GENERIC INTERFACE

       The following example shows how to declare, extend, and implement a contravariant generic interface. It also shows how you can use implicit conversion for classes that implement this interface.

       CONTRAVARIANT GENERIC DELEGATE

       The following example shows how to declare, instantiate, and invoke a contravariant generic delegate. It also shows how you can implicitly convert a delegate type.

       C# LANGUAGE SPECIFICATION

       SEE ALSO

        * out
        * Covariance and Contravariance
        * Modifiers

C# manual                               from the official documentation
