CSHARP.JOIN-CLAUSE(1)            Sandbox manual            CSHARP.JOIN-CLAUSE(1)

       NAME

       join clause (C# Reference) - join clause - C# Reference

       JOIN CLAUSE (C# REFERENCE)

       Use the join clause to associate elements from different source sequences that have no direct relationship in the object model. The only requirement is that the elements in each source share some value that you can compare for equality. For example, a food distributor might have a list of suppliers of a certain product, and a list of buyers. You can use a join clause to create a list of the suppliers and buyers of that product who are all in the same specified region.

       A join clause takes two source sequences as input. The elements in each sequence must either be or contain a property that you can compare to a corresponding property in the other sequence. The join clause uses the special equals keyword to compare the specified keys for equality. All joins that the join clause performs are equijoins. The shape of the output of a join clause depends on the specific type of join you're performing. The following list shows the three most common join types:

        * Inner join
        * Group join
        * Left outer join

       INNER JOIN

       The following example shows a simple inner equijoin. This query produces a flat sequence of "product name / category" pairs. The same category string appears in multiple elements. If an element from categories has no matching products, that category doesn't appear in the results.

       For more information, see Perform inner joins.

       GROUP JOIN

       A join clause with an into expression is called a group join.

       A group join produces a hierarchical result sequence, which associates elements in the left source sequence with one or more matching elements in the right side source sequence. A group join has no equivalent in relational terms; it is essentially a sequence of object arrays.

       If no elements from the right source sequence match an element in the left source, the join clause produces an empty array for that item. Therefore, the group join is still basically an inner-equijoin except that the result sequence is organized into groups.

       If you just select the results of a group join, you can access the items, but you can't identify the key that they match on. Therefore, it's generally more useful to select the results of the group join into a new type that also has the key name, as shown in the previous example.

       You can also, of course, use the result of a group join as the generator of another subquery:

       For more information, see Perform grouped joins.

       LEFT OUTER JOIN

       In a left outer join, the query returns all the elements in the left source sequence, even if no matching elements are in the right sequence. To perform a left outer join in LINQ, use the DefaultIfEmpty method in combination with a group join to specify a default right-side element to produce if a left-side element has no matches. You can use null as the default value for any reference type, or you can specify a user-defined default type. In the following example, a user-defined default type is shown:

       For more information, see Perform left outer joins.

       THE EQUALS OPERATOR

       A join clause performs an equijoin. In other words, you can only base matches on the equality of two keys. Other types of comparisons such as "greater than" or "not equals" aren't supported. To make clear that all joins are equijoins, the join clause uses the equals keyword instead of the == operator. The equals keyword can only be used in a join clause and it differs from the == operator in some important ways. When comparing strings, equals has an overload to compare by value and the operator == uses reference equality. When both sides of comparison have identical string variables, equals and == reach the same result: true. That's because, when a program declares two or more equivalent string variables, the compiler stores all of them in the same location. This is known as interning. Another important difference is the null comparison: null equals null is evaluated as false with equals operator, instead of == operator that evaluates it as true. Lastly, the scoping behavior is different: with equals, the left key consumes the outer source sequence, and the right key consumes the inner source. The outer source is only in scope on the left side of equals and the inner source sequence is only in scope on the right side.

       NON-EQUIJOINS

       You can perform non-equijoins, cross joins, and other custom join operations by using multiple from clauses to introduce new sequences independently into a query. For more information, see Perform custom join operations.

       JOINS ON OBJECT COLLECTIONS VS. RELATIONAL TABLES

       In a LINQ query expression, you perform join operations on object collections. You can't join object collections in exactly the same way as two relational tables. In LINQ, you only need explicit join clauses when two source sequences don't have any relationship. When you work with , the object model represents foreign key tables as properties of the primary table. For example, in the Northwind database, the Customer table has a foreign key relationship with the Orders table. When you map the tables to the object model, the Customer class has an Orders property that contains the collection of Orders associated with that Customer. In effect, the join is already done for you.

       For more information about querying across related tables in the context of , see How to: Map Database Relationships.

       COMPOSITE KEYS

       You can test for equality of multiple values by using a composite key. For more information, see Join by using composite keys. You can also use composite keys in a group clause.

       EXAMPLE

       The following example compares the results of an inner join, a group join, and a left outer join on the same data sources by using the same matching keys. Some extra code is added to these examples to clarify the results in the console display.

       REMARKS

       A join clause that isn't followed by into translates into a Join* method call. A join clause that is followed by into translates to a GroupJoin* method call.

       SEE ALSO

        * Query Keywords (LINQ)
        * Language Integrated Query (LINQ)
        * Join Operations
        * group clause
        * Perform left outer joins
        * Perform inner joins
        * Perform grouped joins
        * Order the results of a join clause
        * Join by using composite keys
        * Compatible database systems for Visual Studio

C# manual                               from the official documentation
