CSHARP.NEW-MODIFIER(1)           Sandbox manual           CSHARP.NEW-MODIFIER(1)

       NAME

       new modifier (C# Reference) - new modifier - C# Reference

       NEW MODIFIER (C# REFERENCE)

       When you use the new keyword as a declaration modifier, you explicitly hide a member that a base class provides. When you hide an inherited member, the derived version of the member replaces the base class version. You can hide a member when the base class version is visible in the derived class. The base class version isn't visible if it's marked as private or, in some cases, internal. Although you can hide public or protected members without using the new modifier, you get a compiler warning. If you use new to explicitly hide a member, it suppresses this warning.

       You can also use the new keyword to create an instance of a type or as a generic type constraint.

       To hide an inherited member, declare it in the derived class by using the same member name, and modify it with the new keyword. For example:

       In this example, BaseC.Invoke is hidden by DerivedC.Invoke. The field x isn't affected because it isn't hidden by a similar name.

       Name hiding through inheritance takes one of the following forms:

        * Generally, a constant, field, property, or type that you introduce in a class or struct hides all base class members that share its name. However, some special cases exist. For example, if you declare a new field with name N to have a type that isn't invocable, and a base type declares N to be a method, the new field doesn't hide the base declaration in invocation syntax. For more information, see the [Member lookup] section of the [C# language specification].
        * A method that you introduce in a class or struct hides properties, fields, and types that share that name in the base class. It also hides all base class methods that have the same signature.
        * An indexer that you introduce in a class or struct hides all base class indexers that have the same signature.
       It's an error to use both new and override on the same member, because the two modifiers have mutually exclusive meanings. The new modifier creates a new member with the same name and causes the original member to become hidden. The override modifier extends the implementation for an inherited member.

       Using the new modifier in a declaration that doesn't hide an inherited member generates a warning.

       EXAMPLES

       In this example, a base class, BaseC, and a derived class, DerivedC, use the same field name x, which hides the value of the inherited field. The example demonstrates the use of the new modifier. It also demonstrates how to access the hidden members of the base class by using their fully qualified names.

       In this example, a nested class hides a class that has the same name in the base class. The example demonstrates how to use the new modifier to eliminate the warning message and how to access the hidden class members by using their fully qualified names.

       If you remove the new modifier, the program still compiles and runs, but you get the following warning:

         The keyword new is required on 'MyDerivedC.x' because it hides inherited member 'MyBaseC.x'.

       C# LANGUAGE SPECIFICATION

       For more information, see [The new modifier] section of the [C# language specification].

       SEE ALSO

        * C# Keywords
        * Modifiers
        * Versioning with the Override and New Keywords
        * Knowing When to Use Override and New Keywords

C# manual                               from the official documentation
