CSHARP.NULLABLE-VALUE-TYPES(1)   Sandbox manual   CSHARP.NULLABLE-VALUE-TYPES(1)

       NAME

       Nullable value types (C# reference) - Learn about C# nullable value types and how to use them

       NULLABLE VALUE TYPES (C# REFERENCE)

       A nullable value type T? represents all values of its underlying value type T and an additional null value. For example, you can assign any of the following three values to a bool? variable: true, false, or null. An underlying value type T can't be a nullable value type itself.

       Any nullable value type is an instance of the generic Nullable1 structure. You can refer to a nullable value type with an underlying type T in any of the following interchangeable forms: Nullable or T?.

       Typically, use a nullable value type when you need to represent the undefined value of an underlying value type. For example, a Boolean, or bool, variable can only be either true or false. However, in some applications a variable value can be undefined or missing. For example, a database field may contain true or false, or it might contain no value at all, that is, NULL. You can use the bool? type in that scenario.

       DECLARATION AND ASSIGNMENT

       Because a value type is implicitly convertible to the corresponding nullable value type, you can assign a value to a variable of a nullable value type as you do that for its underlying value type. You can also assign the null value. For example:

       The default value of a nullable value type represents null. It's an instance whose HasValue property returns false.

       EXAMINATION OF AN INSTANCE OF A NULLABLE VALUE TYPE

       To check an instance of a nullable value type for null and get a value of an underlying type, use the is operator with a type pattern:

       You can always use the following read-only properties to check and get a value of a nullable value type variable:

        * HasValue* shows whether an instance of a nullable value type has a value of its underlying type.
        * Value* gets the value of an underlying type if HasValue* is true. If HasValue* is false, the Value property throws an InvalidOperationException.
       The following example uses the HasValue property to check whether the variable contains a value before displaying it:

       You can also compare a variable of a nullable value type with null instead of using the HasValue property, as the following example shows:

       CONVERSION FROM A NULLABLE VALUE TYPE TO AN UNDERLYING TYPE

       If you want to assign a value of a nullable value type to a non-nullable value type variable, you might need to specify the value to assign in place of null. Use the null-coalescing operator ?? to do that. You can also use the GetValueOrDefault(0) method for the same purpose:

       If you want to use the default value of the underlying value type in place of null, use the GetValueOrDefault method.

       You can also explicitly cast a nullable value type to a non-nullable type, as the following example shows:

       At run time, if the value of a nullable value type is null, the explicit cast throws an InvalidOperationException.

       A non-nullable value type T is implicitly convertible to the corresponding nullable value type T?.

       LIFTED OPERATORS

       A nullable value type T? supports the predefined unary and binary operators or any overloaded operators that a value type T supports. These operators, also known as lifted operators, return null if one or both operands are null. Otherwise, the operator uses the contained values of its operands to calculate the result. For example:

       > For the bool? type, the predefined & and | operators don't follow the rules described in this section: the result of an operator evaluation can be non-null even if one of the operands is null. For more information, see the Nullable Boolean logical operators section of the Boolean logical operators article.
       For the comparison operators <, >, <=, and >=, if one or both operands are null, the result is false. Otherwise, the contained values of operands are compared. Don't assume that because a particular comparison (for example, <=) returns false, the opposite comparison (>) returns true. The following example shows that 10 is

        * neither greater than or equal to null
        * nor less than null
       For the equality operator ==, if both operands are null, the result is true. If only one of the operands is null, the result is false. Otherwise, the contained values of operands are compared.

       For the inequality operator !=, if both operands are null, the result is false. If only one of the operands is null, the result is true. Otherwise, the contained values of operands are compared.

       If a user-defined conversion exists between two value types, the same conversion can also be used between the corresponding nullable value types.

       BOXING AND UNBOXING

       The following rules apply when you box an instance of a nullable value type T?:

        * If HasValue* returns false, the boxing operation returns the null reference.
        * If HasValue* returns true, the boxing operation boxes the corresponding value of the underlying value type T, not the instance of Nullable1.
       You can unbox a boxed value of a value type T to the corresponding nullable value type T?, as the following example shows:

       HOW TO IDENTIFY A NULLABLE VALUE TYPE

       The following example shows how to determine whether a Type instance represents a constructed nullable value type, that is, the Nullable1 type with a specified type parameter T:

       As the example shows, you use the typeof operator to create a Type instance.

       If you want to determine whether an instance is of a nullable value type, don't use the GetType* method to get a Type instance to test by using the preceding code. When you call the GetType* method on an instance of a nullable value type, the instance is boxed to Object. Because boxing a non-null instance of a nullable value type is equivalent to boxing a value of the underlying type, GetType* returns a Type instance that represents the underlying type of a nullable value type:

       Also, don't use the is operator to determine whether an instance is of a nullable value type. As the following example shows, you can't distinguish types of a nullable value type instance and its underlying type instance by using the is operator:

       Instead, use the GetUnderlyingType* method from the first example and the typeof operator to check if an instance is of a nullable value type.

       > The methods described in this section don't apply to nullable reference types.

       C# LANGUAGE SPECIFICATION

       For more information, see the following sections of the [C# language specification]:

        * [Nullable types]
        * [Lifted operators]
        * [Implicit nullable conversions]
        * [Explicit nullable conversions]
        * [Lifted conversion operators]

       SEE ALSO

        * What exactly does 'lifted' mean?
        * Nullable1
        * Nullable
        * GetUnderlyingType*
        * Nullable reference types

C# manual                               from the official documentation
