CSHARP.OVERRIDE(1)               Sandbox manual               CSHARP.OVERRIDE(1)

       NAME

       override (C# reference) - override modifier - C# Reference

       OVERRIDE (C# REFERENCE)

       Use the override modifier to extend or modify the abstract or virtual implementation of an inherited method, property, indexer, or event.

       In the following example, the Square class must provide an overridden implementation of GetArea because GetArea is inherited from the abstract Shape class:

       An override method provides a new implementation of the method inherited from a base class. An override method declaration provides a more specific implementation of the overridden base method. An override method must have the same signature as the overridden base method. override methods support covariant return types. In particular, the return type of an override method can derive from the return type of the corresponding base method.

       You can't override a non-virtual or static method. The overridden base method must be virtual, abstract, or override.

       An override declaration can't change the accessibility of the virtual method. Both the override method and the virtual method must have the same access level modifier.

       You can't use the new, static, or virtual modifiers to modify an override method.

       An overriding property declaration must specify exactly the same access modifier, type, and name as the inherited property. Read-only overriding properties support covariant return types. The overridden property must be virtual, abstract, or override.

       For more information about how to use the override keyword, see Versioning with the Override and New Keywords and Knowing when to use Override and New Keywords. For information about inheritance, see Inheritance.

       EXAMPLE

       This example defines a base class named Employee and a derived class named SalesEmployee. The SalesEmployee class includes an extra field, salesbonus, and overrides the method CalculatePay to take the bonus into account.

       C# LANGUAGE SPECIFICATION

       For more information, see the [Override methods] section of the [C# language specification].

       For more information about covariant return types, see [Covariant return types] in the C# language specification.

       SEE ALSO

        * Inheritance
        * C# keywords
        * Modifiers
        * abstract
        * virtual
        * new (modifier)
        * Polymorphism

C# manual                               from the official documentation
