CSHARP.READONLY(1)               Sandbox manual               CSHARP.READONLY(1)

       NAME

       readonly (C# reference) - readonly keyword - C# Reference

       READONLY (C# REFERENCE)

       Use the readonly keyword as a modifier in five contexts:

        * In a field declaration, readonly means you can only assign the field during the declaration or in a constructor in the same class. You can assign and reassign a readonly field multiple times within the field declaration and constructor.
       You can't assign a readonly field after the constructor finishes. This rule affects value types and reference types differently:

          * Because value types directly contain their data, a field that is a readonly value type is immutable.
          * Because reference types contain a reference to their data, a field that is a readonly reference type must always refer to the same object. That object might not be immutable. The readonly modifier prevents replacing the field value with a different instance of the reference type. However, the modifier doesn't prevent the instance data of the field from being modified through the read-only field.
       > An externally visible type that contains an externally visible read-only field that is a mutable reference type might be a security vulnerability and might trigger warning CA2104 : "Do not declare read only mutable reference types."
        * In a readonly struct type definition, readonly means the structure type is immutable. For more information, see the readonly struct section of the Structure types article.
        * In an instance member declaration within a structure type, readonly means an instance member doesn't modify the state of the structure. For more information, see the readonly instance members section of the Structure types article.
        * In a ref readonly method return, the readonly modifier indicates that the method returns a reference and writes aren't allowed to that reference.
          * To declare a ref readonly parameter to a method.

       READONLY FIELD EXAMPLE

       In this example, you can't change the value of the year field in the ChangeYear method, even though the class constructor assigns a value to it:

       You can assign a value to a readonly field only in the following contexts:

        * When you initialize the variable in the declaration, for example:

           public readonly int y = 5;

        * In an instance constructor of the class that contains the instance field declaration.
        * In the static constructor of the class that contains the static field declaration.
       These constructor contexts are also the only contexts in which it's valid to pass a readonly field as an out or ref parameter.

       > The readonly keyword is different from the const keyword. You can only initialize a const field at the declaration of the field. You can assign a readonly field multiple times in the field declaration and in any constructor. Therefore, readonly fields can have different values depending on the constructor used. Also, while a const field is a compile-time constant, the readonly field can be used for run-time constants as in the following example:
       > csharp
       > public static readonly uint timeStamp = (uint)DateTime.Now.Ticks;
       In the preceding example, if you use a statement like the following example:

         p2.y = 66;        // Error

       you get the compiler error message:

       A readonly field cannot be assigned to (except in a constructor or a variable initializer)

       READONLY INSTANCE MEMBERS

       Use the readonly modifier to declare that an instance member doesn't modify the state of a struct.

         public readonly double Sum()
         {
             return X + Y;
         }

       > For a read/write property, you can add the readonly modifier to the get accessor. Some get accessors perform a calculation and cache the result, rather than simply returning the value of a private field. By adding the readonly modifier to the get accessor, you guarantee that the get accessor doesn't modify the internal state of the object by caching any result.
       For more examples, see the readonly instance members section of the Structure types article.

       REF READONLY RETURN EXAMPLE

       A readonly modifier on a ref return indicates that the returned reference can't be modified. The following example returns a reference to the origin. It uses the readonly modifier to indicate that callers can't modify the origin:

       The type returned doesn't need to be a readonly struct. Any type that ref can return can also be returned by ref readonly.

       READONLY REF READONLY RETURN EXAMPLE

       You can also use a ref readonly return with readonly instance members on struct types:

         public struct ReadonlyRefReadonlyExample
         {
             private int _data;

             public readonly ref readonly int ReadonlyRefReadonly(ref int reference)
             {
                 // _data = 1; // Compile error if uncommented.
                 return ref reference;
             }
         }

       The method essentially returns a readonly reference together with the instance member (in this case a method) being readonly (not able to modify any instance fields).

       C# LANGUAGE SPECIFICATION

       SEE ALSO

        * Add readonly modifier (style rule IDE0044)
        * C# Keywords
        * Modifiers
        * const
        * Fields

C# manual                               from the official documentation
