CSHARP.SELECT-CLAUSE(1)          Sandbox manual          CSHARP.SELECT-CLAUSE(1)

       NAME

       select clause (C# Reference) - select clause - C# Reference

       SELECT CLAUSE (C# REFERENCE)

       In a query expression, the select clause specifies the type of values that the query produces when it runs. The result comes from evaluating all the previous clauses and any expressions in the select clause itself. A query expression must end with either a select clause or a group clause.

       The following example shows a simple select clause in a query expression.

       The type of the sequence that the select clause produces determines the type of the query variable queryHighScores. In the simplest case, the select clause just specifies the range variable. This approach makes the returned sequence contain elements of the same type as the data source. For more information, see Type Relationships in LINQ Query Operations. However, the select clause also provides a powerful mechanism for transforming (or projecting) source data into new types. For more information, see Data Transformations with LINQ (C#).

       The following example shows all the different forms that a select clause can take. In each query, note the relationship between the select clause and the type of the query variable (studentQuery1, studentQuery2, and so on).

       As shown in studentQuery8 in the previous example, sometimes you want the elements of the returned sequence to contain only a subset of the properties of the source elements. By keeping the returned sequence as small as possible, you reduce the memory requirements and increase the speed of the execution of the query. You can accomplish this goal by creating an anonymous type in the select clause and using an object initializer to initialize it with the appropriate properties from the source element. For an example of how to do this, see Object and Collection Initializers.

       At compile time, the select clause is translated to a method call to the Select* standard query operator.

       SEE ALSO

        * Query Keywords (LINQ)
        * from clause
        * partial (Method) (C# Reference)
        * Anonymous Types
        * LINQ in C#

C# manual                               from the official documentation
