CSHARP.STACKALLOC(1)             Sandbox manual             CSHARP.STACKALLOC(1)

       NAME

       stackalloc expression (C# reference) - The C# stackalloc expression allocates a block of memory on the stack. Stackalloc memory is automatically discarded when that method returns

       STACKALLOC EXPRESSION (C# REFERENCE)

       A stackalloc expression allocates a block of memory on the stack. A stack-allocated memory block created during the method execution is automatically discarded when that method returns. You can't explicitly free the memory allocated by stackalloc. A stack-allocated memory block isn't subject to garbage collection and doesn't need to be pinned by a fixed statement.

       You can assign the result of a stackalloc expression to a variable of one of the following types:

        * Span1 or ReadOnlySpan1, as the following example shows:
       You don't need to use an unsafe context when you assign a stack-allocated memory block to a Span1 or ReadOnlySpan1 variable.

       When you work with those types, you can use a stackalloc expression in conditional or assignment expressions, as the following example shows:

       You can use a stackalloc expression or a collection expression inside other expressions whenever a Span1 or ReadOnlySpan1 variable is allowed, as the following example shows:

       > Use Span1 or ReadOnlySpan1 types to work with stack-allocated memory whenever possible.
        * A pointer type, as the following example shows:
       You must use an unsafe context when you work with pointer types.

       > The memory safety preview feature available in C# 15 lets you convert a stackalloc expression to a pointer outside an unsafe context. Operations that access the allocated memory through the pointer still require an unsafe context.
       For pointer types, you can use a stackalloc expression only in a local variable declaration to initialize the variable.

       The amount of memory available on the stack is limited. If you allocate too much memory on the stack, a StackOverflowException is thrown. To avoid that exception, follow these rules:

        * Limit the amount of memory you allocate by using stackalloc. For example, if the intended buffer size is below a certain limit, allocate the memory on the stack. Otherwise, use an array of the required length, as the following code shows:
       > Because the amount of memory available on the stack depends on the environment in which the code runs, be conservative when you define the actual limit value.
        * Avoid using stackalloc inside loops. Allocate the memory block outside a loop and reuse it inside the loop.
       The content of the newly allocated memory is undefined. You should initialize it before it's used, either with a stackalloc initializer or a method like Clear*.

       > Not initializing memory allocated by stackalloc is an important difference from the new operator. Memory allocated by using the new operator is initialized to the 0 bit pattern.
       You can use array initializer syntax to define the content of the newly allocated memory. The following example demonstrates various ways to do that:

       In expression stackalloc T[E], T must be an unmanaged type and E must evaluate to a non-negative int value. When you use the collection expression syntax to initialize the span, the compiler can use stack-allocated storage for a span if it doesn't violate ref safety.

       SECURITY

       Using stackalloc automatically turns on buffer overrun detection features in the common language runtime (CLR). If the runtime detects a buffer overrun, it terminates the process as quickly as possible to reduce the chance that malicious code runs.

       C# LANGUAGE SPECIFICATION

       For more information, see the [Stack allocation] section of the [C# language specification].

       SEE ALSO

        * C# operators and expressions
        * Pointer related operators
        * Pointer types
        * Memory and span-related types
        * Dos and Don'ts of stackalloc

C# manual                               from the official documentation
