CSHARP.STATIC(1)                 Sandbox manual                 CSHARP.STATIC(1)

       NAME

       static (C# Reference) - static modifier - C# Reference

       STATIC (C# REFERENCE)

       This article covers the static modifier keyword. The static keyword is also part of the using static directive.

       Use the static modifier to declare a static member, which belongs to the type itself rather than to a specific object. Use the static modifier to declare static classes. In classes, interfaces, and structs, you can add the static modifier to fields, methods, properties, operators, events, and constructors. You can't use the static modifier with indexers or finalizers. For more information, see Static Classes and Static Class Members.

       You can add the static modifier to a local function. A static local function can't capture local variables or instance state.

       You can add the static modifier to a lambda expression or anonymous method. A static lambda or anonymous method can't capture local variables or instance state.

       The following class is declared as static and contains only static methods:

       A constant or type declaration is implicitly a static member. You can't reference a static member through an instance. Instead, reference it through the type name. For example, consider the following class:

       To refer to the static member x, use the fully qualified name, MyBaseC.MyStruct.x, unless the member is accessible from the same scope:

         Console.WriteLine(MyBaseC.MyStruct.x);

       While an instance of a class contains a separate copy of all instance fields of the class, there's only one copy of each static field. For generic types, each closed generic type has its own copy of static fields. Static fields marked with ThreadStaticAttribute have one copy per thread.

       You can't use this to reference static methods or property accessors.

       If you apply the static keyword to a class, all the members of the class must be static.

       Classes, interfaces, and static classes can have static constructors. A static constructor is called at some point between when the program starts and the class is instantiated.

       > The static keyword has more limited uses than in C++. To compare with the C++ keyword, see Storage classes (C++).
       To demonstrate static members, consider a class that represents a company employee. Assume that the class contains a method to count employees and a field to store the number of employees. Both the method and the field don't belong to any one employee instance. Instead, they belong to the class of employees as a whole. They should be declared as static members of the class.

       This example reads the name and ID of a new employee, increments the employee counter by one, and displays the information for the new employee and the new number of employees. This program reads the current number of employees from the keyboard.

       This example shows that you can initialize a static field by using another static field that isn't yet declared. The results are undefined until you explicitly assign a value to the static field.

       C# LANGUAGE SPECIFICATION

       SEE ALSO

        * C# Keywords
        * Modifiers
        * using static directive
        * Static Classes and Static Class Members

C# manual                               from the official documentation
