CSHARP.TOUR-TUPLES-AND-TYPES(1)  Sandbox manual  CSHARP.TOUR-TUPLES-AND-TYPES(1)

       NAME

       Tutorial: Create types in C\# - This tutorial teaches you to create types in C#. You write C# code and see the results of compiling and running your code as you learn the s

       TUTORIAL: CREATE TYPES IN C #

       This tutorial teaches you how to create types in C#. You write small amounts of code, then you compile and run that code. The tutorial contains a series of lessons that explore different kinds of types in C#. These lessons teach you the fundamentals of the C# language.

       > New to programming? Work through each section in order - tuples, records, and then structs and classes. Coming from another language? If you already know classes and structs, focus on tuples and record types, which might be new to you.
       The preceding tutorials worked with text and numbers. Strings and numbers are simple types: They each store one single value. As your programs grow larger, you need to work with more sophisticated data structures. C# provides different kinds of types you can define when you need data structures with more fields, properties, or behavior. Let's start to explore those types.

       In this tutorial, you:

       > * Create and manipulate tuple types.
       > * Create record types.
       > * Learn about struct, class, and interface types.

       PREREQUISITES

       You must have one of the following options:

        * A GitHub account to use GitHub Codespaces. If you don't already have one, you can create a free account at GitHub.com.
        * A computer with the following tools installed:
          * The .NET 10 SDK.
          * Visual Studio Code.
          * The C# DevKit.
       To use codespaces, you need a GitHub account. If you don't already have one, you can create a free account at GitHub.com.

       TUPLES

       To start a GitHub Codespace with the tutorial environment, open a browser window to the tutorial codespace repository. Select the green Code button, and the Codespaces tab. Then select the + sign to create a new Codespace using this environment. If you completed other tutorials in this series, you can open that codespace instead of creating a new one.

        1. When your codespace loads, create a new file in the tutorials folder named tuples.cs.
        1. Open your new file.
        1. Type or copy the following code into tuples.cs:
        1. Run your program by typing the following commands in the integrated terminal window:

            cd tutorials
            dotnet tuples.cs

       Tuples are an ordered sequence of values with a fixed length. Each element of a tuple has a type and an optional name.

       > As you explore C# (or any programming language), you make mistakes when you write code. The compiler finds those errors and reports them to you. When the output contains error messages, look closely at the example code and your code to see what to fix. You can also ask Copilot to find differences or spot any mistakes. That exercise helps you learn the structure of C# code.
        1. Add the following code after the previous code to modify a tuple member:
        1. You can also create a new tuple that's a modified copy of the original using a with expression. Add the following code after the existing code and type dotnet tuples.cs in the terminal window to see the results:
       The tuple pt2 contains the X value of pt (6), and pt2.Y is 10. Tuples are structural types. In other words, tuple types don't have names like string or int. A tuple type is defined by the number of members, referred to as arity, and the types of those members. The member names are for convenience. You can assign a tuple to a tuple with the same arity and types even if the members have different names.

        1. You can add the following code after the code you already wrote:
        1. Try it by typing dotnet tuples.cs in the terminal window. The variable subscript has two members, both of which are integers. Both subscript and pt represent instances of the same tuple type: a tuple containing two int members.
       Tuples are easy to create: You declare multiple members enclosed in parentheses. All the following declarations define different tuples with different arities and member types.

        1. Add the following code to create new tuple types:
        1. Try this change by typing dotnet tuples.cs again in the terminal window.
       While tuples are easy to create, they're limited in their capabilities. Tuple types don't have names, so you can't convey meaning to the set of values. Tuple types can't add behavior. C# has other kinds of types you can create when your type defines behavior.

       > Learn more: Explore tuples and other type choices in C# Fundamentals.

       CREATE RECORD TYPES

       Tuples work well when you want multiple values in the same structure. They're lightweight, and you can declare them as you use them. As your program grows, you might find that you use the same tuple type throughout your code. If your app works in the 2D graph space, the tuples that represent points might be common. When you find this pattern, declare a record type that stores those values and provides more capabilities.

        1. Add the following code to declare and use a record type to represent a Point:
       Place the preceding code at the bottom of your source file. Type declarations like record declarations must follow executable statements in a file-based app.

        1. Add the following code preceding the record declaration:
       The record declaration is a single line of code for the Point type that stores the values X and Y in readonly properties. You use the name Point wherever you use that type. Properly named types, like Point, provide information about how the type is used. The additional code shows how to use a with expression to create a new point that's a modified copy of the existing point. The line pt4 = pt3 with { Y = 10 } says "pt4 has the same values as pt3 except that Y is assigned to 10." You can add any number of properties to change in a single with expression.

       The preceding record declaration is a single line of code that ends in ;. You can add behavior to a record type by declaring members. A record member can be a function or more data elements. The members of a type are in the type declaration, between { and } characters.

        1. Delete the ; and add the following lines of code after the record declaration:
        1. Add the following code before the record declaration, after the line containing the with expression:
        1. Type dotnet tuples.cs in the terminal window to run this version.
       You added formality to the tuple representing an X and Y value. You made it a record that defined a named type and included a member to calculate the slope. A record type is a shorthand for a record class: A class type that includes extra behavior.

        1. You can modify the Point type to make it a record struct as well:
       A record struct is a struct type that includes the extra behavior added to all record types.

        1. Try this version by typing dotnet tuples.cs in the terminal window.

       STRUCT, CLASS, AND INTERFACE TYPES

       All concrete named types in C# are either class or struct types, including record types. A class is a reference type. A struct is a value type. Variables of a value type store the contents of the instance inline in memory. In other words, a record struct Point stores two integers: X and Y. Variables of a reference type store a reference, or pointer, to the storage for the instance. In other words, a record class Point stores a reference to a block of memory that holds the values for X and Y.

       In practice, that difference means value types are copied when assigned, but a copy of a class instance is a copy of the reference. That copied reference refers to the same instance of a point, with the same storage for X and Y.

       The record modifier instructs the compiler to write several members for you. You can learn more in the article on record types in the fundamentals section.

       When you declare a record type, you declare that your type should use a default set of behaviors for equality comparisons, assignment, and copying instances of that type. Records are the best choice when storing related data is the primary responsibility of your type. As you add more behaviors, consider using struct or class types, without the record modifier.

       Use struct types for value types when you need more sophisticated behavior, but the primary responsibility is storing values. Use class types to use object-oriented idioms like encapsulation, inheritance, and polymorphism.

       You can also define interface types to declare behavioral contracts that different types must implement. Both struct and class types can implement interfaces.

       You typically use all these types in larger programs and libraries. Once you install the SDK, you can explore those types using tutorials on classes in the fundamentals section.

       You completed the "Create types in C#" tutorial.

       CLEANUP RESOURCES

       GitHub automatically deletes your Codespace after 30 days of inactivity. If you plan to explore more tutorials in this series, you can leave your Codespace provisioned. If you're ready to visit the .NET site to download the .NET SDK, you can delete your Codespace. To delete your Codespace, open a browser window and navigate to your Codespaces. You should see a list of your codespaces in the window. Select the three dots (...) in the entry for the learn tutorial codespace and select delete.

       NEXT STEPS

       Continue to the next tutorial in this series:

       > Branches and loops
       Or explore related topics in C# Fundamentals:

        * The C# type system — Dive deeper into the types you used in this tutorial.
        * Record types — Learn more about records and when to use them.
        * Classes — Explore object-oriented programming in C#.
        * What you can build with C# — See the kinds of apps you can create with what you're learning.

C# manual                               from the official documentation
