CSHARP.TYPE-TESTING-AND-CAST(1)  Sandbox manual  CSHARP.TYPE-TESTING-AND-CAST(1)

       NAME

       Type-testing operators and cast expressions - `is`, `as`, `typeof`, and casts - The `is` and `as` operators test the type of an object. The `typeof` keyword returns the type of a variable. Casts try to convert an object

       TYPE-TESTING OPERATORS AND CAST EXPRESSIONS - IS, AS, TYPEOF, AND CAST

       These operators and expressions perform type checking or type conversion. The is operator checks if the run-time type of an expression is compatible with a given type. The as operator explicitly converts an expression to a given type if its run-time type is compatible with that type. Cast expressions perform an explicit conversion to a target type. The typeof operator obtains the Type instance for a type.

       THE IS OPERATOR

       The is operator checks if the run-time type of an expression result is compatible with a given type. The is operator also tests an expression result against a pattern.

       The expression with the type-testing is operator has the following form

         E is T

       Where E is an expression that returns a value and T is the name of a type or a type parameter. E can't be an anonymous method or a lambda expression.

       The is operator returns true when an expression result is non-null and any of the following conditions are true:

        * The run-time type of an expression result has an identity conversion to T.
        * The run-time type of an expression result derives from type T, implements interface T, or another [implicit reference conversion] exists from it to T. This condition covers inheritance relationships and interface implementations.
        * The run-time type of an expression result is a nullable value type with the underlying type T and the HasValue is true.
        * A boxing or unboxing conversion exists from the run-time type of an expression result to type T when the expression isn't an instance of a ref struct.
       The is operator doesn't consider user-defined conversions or implicit span conversions.

       The following example demonstrates that the is operator returns true if the run-time type of an expression result derives from a given type, that is, there exists a reference conversion between types:

       The next example shows that the is operator takes into account boxing and unboxing conversions but doesn't consider numeric conversions:

       For information about C# conversions, see the [Conversions] chapter of the [C# language specification].

       TYPE TESTING WITH PATTERN MATCHING

       The is operator also tests an expression result against a pattern. The following example shows how to use a declaration pattern to check the run-time type of an expression:

       For information about the supported patterns, see Patterns.

       THE AS OPERATOR

       Use the as operator to explicitly convert the result of an expression to a given reference or nullable value type. If the conversion isn't possible, the as operator returns null. Unlike a cast expression, the as operator never throws an exception.

       The expression of the form

         E as T

       Where E is an expression that returns a value and T is the name of a type or a type parameter, produces the same result as

         E is T ? (T)(E) : (T)null

       Except that E is only evaluated once.

       The as operator considers only reference, nullable, boxing, and unboxing conversions. You can't use the as operator to perform a user-defined conversion. To perform a user-defined conversion, use a cast expression.

       The following example demonstrates the usage of the as operator:

       > As the preceding example shows, you need to compare the result of the as expression with null to check if the conversion was successful. You can use the is operator both to test if the conversion succeeds and, if it succeeds, assign its result to a new variable.

       CAST EXPRESSION

       A cast expression of the form (T)E explicitly converts the result of expression E to type T. If no explicit conversion exists from the type of E to type T, the compiler issues an error. At run time, an explicit conversion might not succeed and a cast expression might throw an exception.

       The following example demonstrates explicit numeric and reference conversions:

       For information about supported explicit conversions, see the [Explicit conversions] section of the [C# language specification]. For information about how to define a custom explicit or implicit type conversion, see User-defined conversion operators.

       OTHER USAGES OF ()

       You also use parentheses to call a method or invoke a delegate.

       Another use of parentheses is to adjust the order in which C# evaluates operations in an expression. For more information, see C# operators.

       THE TYPEOF OPERATOR

       The typeof operator gets the Type instance for a type. The argument to the typeof operator must be the name of a type or a type parameter, as the following example shows:

       The argument can't be a type that requires metadata annotations. Examples of these types include the following types:

        * dynamic
        * string? (or any nullable reference type)
       These types aren't directly represented in metadata. The types include attributes that describe the underlying type. In both cases, you can use the underlying type. Instead of dynamic, use object. Instead of string?, use string.

       You can also use the typeof operator with unbound generic types. The name of an unbound generic type must contain the appropriate number of commas, which is one less than the number of type parameters. The following example shows the usage of the typeof operator with an unbound generic type:

       An expression can't be an argument of the typeof operator. To get the Type instance for the run-time type of an expression result, use the GetType* method.

       TYPE TESTING WITH THE TYPEOF OPERATOR

       Use the typeof operator to check if the run-time type of the expression result exactly matches a given type. The following example demonstrates the difference between type checking done by using the typeof operator and the is operator:

       OPERATOR OVERLOADABILITY

       You can't overload the is, as, and typeof operators.

       A user-defined type can't overload the () operator, but it can define custom type conversions that a cast expression performs. For more information, see User-defined conversion operators.

       C# LANGUAGE SPECIFICATION

       For more information, see the following sections of the [C# language specification]:

        * [The is operator]
        * [The as operator]
        * [Cast expressions]
        * [The typeof operator]

       SEE ALSO

        * C# operators and expressions
        * How to safely cast by using pattern matching and the is and as operators
        * Generics in .NET

C# manual                               from the official documentation
