CSHARP.VIRTUAL(1)                Sandbox manual                CSHARP.VIRTUAL(1)

       NAME

       virtual (C# Reference) - virtual - C# Reference

       VIRTUAL (C# REFERENCE)

       Use the virtual keyword to modify a method, property, indexer, or event declaration and allow a derived class to override it.

       For example, any class that inherits this method can override it:

         public virtual double Area()
         {
             return x * y;
         }

       An overriding member in a derived class can change the implementation of a virtual member. For more information about how to use the virtual keyword, see Versioning with the Override and New Keywords and Knowing When to Use Override and New Keywords.

       When you invoke a virtual method, the runtime checks the type of the object for an overriding member. It calls the overriding member in the most derived class. If no derived class overrides the member, the original member is called.

       By default, methods are non-virtual. You can't override a non-virtual method.

       The following example shows a virtual property:

       Virtual properties behave like virtual methods, except for the differences in declaration and invocation syntax.

        * A virtual inherited property can be overridden in a derived class by including a property declaration that uses the override modifier.

       EXAMPLE

       In this example, the Shape class contains the two coordinates x and y, and the Area() virtual method. Different shape classes such as Circle, Cylinder, and Sphere inherit the Shape class, and the surface area is calculated for each figure. Each derived class has its own override implementation of Area().

       The inherited classes Circle, Cylinder, and Sphere all use constructors that initialize the base class, as shown in the following declaration.

         public Cylinder(double r, double h): base(r, h) {}

       The following program calculates and displays the appropriate area for each figure by invoking the appropriate implementation of the Area() method, according to the object that is associated with the method.

       C# LANGUAGE SPECIFICATION

       SEE ALSO

        * Polymorphism
        * abstract
        * override
        * new (modifier)

C# manual                               from the official documentation
