UBUNTU.EXPLANATION-INTRO-TO-SECURITY(1) Sandbox manual UBUNTU.EXPLANATION-INTRO-TO-SECURITY(1)

       NAME

       Introduction to security - Security should always be considered when you install, deploy, and use an

       INTRODUCTION TO SECURITY

       Security should always be considered when you install, deploy, and use an Ubuntu system. While a fresh installation of Ubuntu is usually safe for immediate use, your system's security posture will be very important depending on how it is used after it is deployed. You should always employ a layered approach to security so that that your system does not rely on a single point of defense.

       SERVER SECURITY GUIDANCE

       Given Ubuntu has a wide range of customization options, this introduction cannot provide a comprehensive security hardening guide. However, the security of nearly any Ubuntu system can be enhanced by implementing certain best practices and security-related packages. Our security suggestions page outlines those best practices and packages. While you may not choose to implement every suggestion -- and this list is not exhaustive -- each one can contribute an additional layer of security.

       If your Ubuntu setup is more advanced or more complex than others, you may need to do more research into your security outlook. There are specific packages available for Ubuntu Servers that can provide additional security, and we suggest some packages in the advanced security section that you might want to investigate. Again, the list in this section is not intended to be exhaustive, but rather a starting point.

       For the most thorough treatment of security in Ubuntu, we also recommend reading the Ubuntu Security documentation.

       UBUNTU PRO

       Canonical offers security, compliance and support services through the Ubuntu Pro subscription. Ubuntu Pro is available for free on up to 5 machines (for business or personal use). Although the compliance and certification features of Ubuntu Pro are likely to be of more interest to enterprise users, the enhanced security coverage is great for anyone using Ubuntu.

       All of the Ubuntu Pro features can be managed on the command line via the Ubuntu Pro Client utility, which has an API that provides easier automation to users.

       VULNERABILITY MANAGEMENT

       In a standard Ubuntu LTS release, security support is provided for packages in the Main repository for 5 years. With Ubuntu Pro, this support is expanded to 10 years, and also includes patching for medium, high and critical severity vulnerabilities for the Universe repository. This service, known as Expanded Security Maintenance (ESM), is recommended for every Ubuntu system.

       KERNEL APPLICATION HARDENING

       We also recommend Canonical's Livepatch service for every Ubuntu system, which applies kernel patches for high and critical severity vulnerabilities while the system is running, without the need for an immediate reboot -- which reduces downtime. Learn more about Livepatch here.

       SECURITY COMPLIANCE AND CERTIFICATION

       For enterprise users who must ensure compliance with specific standards, such as FIPS and CIS, Ubuntu also provides profile benchmarking.

       REPORTING VULNERABILITIES

       If you need to report a security issue, refer to the security disclosure policy.

Ubuntu Server manual                    from the official documentation
