UBUNTU.HOW-TO-SECURITY-USER-MANAGEMENT(1) Sandbox manual UBUNTU.HOW-TO-SECURITY-USER-MANAGEMENT(1)

       NAME

       User management - User management is a critical part of maintaining a secure system. Ineffective user and privilege management often leads to a system being c

       USER MANAGEMENT

       User management is a critical part of maintaining a secure system. Ineffective user and privilege management often leads to a system being compromised. Therefore, it is important that you understand how to protect your server through simple and effective user account management techniques.

       WHERE IS ROOT

       Ubuntu developers decided to disable the administrative root account by default in all Ubuntu installations. This does not mean that the root account has been deleted, or that it may not be accessed. Instead, it has been given a password hash that matches no possible value, and so may not log in directly by itself.

       Instead, the sudo utility ("superuser do") is used to carry out system administrative duties. sudo allows an authorized user to temporarily elevate their privileges using their own password instead of having to know the password belonging to the root account. This provides accountability for all user actions, and gives the administrator control over which actions a user can perform with said privileges.

       SUDO-RS

       From Ubuntu 25.10 (Questing Quokka) onward, sudo is provided by the sudo-rs package (a rust implementation). While sudo-rs is not 100% compatible with sudo.ws, the majority of common use cases are supported and the change should be invisible to most users.

       A list of key differences is maintained as a reference

       The original sudo utility (maintained by Todd C. Miller), sudo.ws remains supported in the 25.10 and the subsequent 26.04 LTS. You will find these utilities installed with .ws suffix (for example sudo.ws, visudo.ws, etc.). Switching the default back to sudo.ws is not recommended, but if you need to do so, follow these steps:

       Interactive:

         update-alternatives --config sudo

       Non-interactive:

         update-alternatives --set sudo /usr/bin/sudo.ws

       You can always switch back to sudo-rs using:

         update-alternatives --set sudo /usr/lib/cargo/bin/sudo

       You can learn more about the motivation for this change in the blog post Adopting sudo-rs By Default in Ubuntu 25.10

       The rest of the article should work the same with both sudo.ws and sudo-rs.

       ENABLING THE ROOT ACCOUNT

       If for some reason you wish to enable the root account, you will need to give it a password:

         sudo passwd

       sudo will prompt you for your password, and then ask you to supply a new password for root as shown below:

         [sudo: authenticate] Password: (enter your own password)
         New password: (enter a new password for root)
         Retype new password: (repeat new password for root)
         passwd: password updated successfully

       DISABLING THE ROOT ACCOUNT PASSWORD

       To disable the root account password, use the following passwd syntax:

         sudo passwd -l root

       You can learn more about sudo by reading the sudo(8) manual page: man sudo

       By default, the initial user created by the Ubuntu installer is a member of the group sudo which is added to the file /etc/sudoers as an authorized sudo user. To give any other account full root access through sudo, add them to the sudo group.

       LISTING, ADDING, AND DELETING LOCAL USERS

       Managing local users and groups differs very little from most other GNU/Linux operating systems. Ubuntu and other Debian-based distributions encourage the use of the adduser package for account management.

       Local users and groups are those defined in the /etc/passwd and /etc/group files, respectively. Via the Name Service Switch (NSS) mechanism, however, user and group accounts can also come from other sources, like remote Active Directory or Samba servers, OpenLDAP directory services, and more. Managing accounts in those services in an entirely different matter, and not covered in this document.

       LISTING LOCAL USERS

       The local users are defined one per line in the /etc/passwd text file. The cat /etc/passwd command can be used to list its contents (only a few lines shown below, for brevity):

         root:x:0:0:root:/root:/bin/bash
         daemon:x:1:1:daemon:/usr/sbin:/usr/sbin/nologin
         bin:x:2:2:bin:/bin:/usr/sbin/nologin
         sys:x:3:3:sys:/dev:/usr/sbin/nologin
         ...
         ubuntu:x:1000:1000:Ubuntu:/home/ubuntu:/bin/bash

       > Tip: The structure of the /etc/passwd file is explained in the passwd(5) manual page.
       There are basically three types of local users:

        * system pre-installed users: These are system users essential to a working Linux system, like root, man, lp, and others. Their UIDs are in the range between 0 and 99.
        * system users: These users are created dynamically, as services are installed. The UID range here is between 100 and 999.
        * Regular users: Finally, the remaining range is usable for "real" users, generally representing persons using the system. This UID range starts at 1000 and, by convention, ends at 59999.
       > Tip: For more details about these UID ranges, including groups and other configuration options for adding users, check the adduser.conf.5 manual page.
       To list all local usernames, we can list the contents of /etc/passwd with some string manipulation. For example:

         cat /etc/passwd | cut -d : -f 1

       This command will cut each line at the first column, using the ":" character as the delimiter, and result in an output showing all local users:

         root
         daemon
         bin
         sys
         ...

       If you want to only show regular users, that is, users with an UID greater than 1000, we can use a regular expression for this filtering:

         cat /etc/passwd | cut -d : -f 1,3 | grep -E ':[0-9]{4,}'

       The regular expression :[0-9]{4,} means all digits, repeated 4 times or more. The output will be similar to this:

         nobody:65534
         ubuntu:1000

       > Tip: By convention, the nobody users has an UID of 65534. That originated back when the user range was limited to 16 bits (so, 0-65535), and is kept for compatibility reasons.

       A NOTE ABOUT REMOTE USERS

       There is another command that, at first glance, looks like it lists all local users as well: getent passwd. What this tool is doing, however, is listing all entries from the passwd database, and this will include any NSS modules that might be installed and configured.

       On a default installation of Ubuntu, with no extra configuration, that will indeed list only the local users, but not in the general case. If you have, for example, libnss-ldap installed and configured, the output of getent passwd will list all local users, plus all the remote users it finds in the LDAP server that it was configured with.

       Performing such an exhaustive enumeration is frowned upon, because that can incur a large amount of network traffic, and place an unreasonable burden on the remote server. In fact, most NSS services block such enumeration actions by default.

       For more information on the Name Service Switch (NSS) mechanism, please consult the nss(5) and nsswitch.conf(5) manual pages.

       ADD A USER

       To add a user account, use the following syntax, and follow the prompts to give the account a password and identifiable characteristics, such as a full name, phone number, etc:

         sudo adduser username

       DELETE A USER

       To delete a user account and its primary group, use the following syntax:

         sudo deluser username

       Deleting an account does not remove their respective home folder. You must decide whether or not to delete the folder manually, or to keep it according to your desired retention policies.

       Remember, any user added later with the same UID/GID as the previous owner will now have access to this folder if you have not taken the necessary precautions.

       You may want to change the UID/GID values to something more appropriate, such as the root account, and perhaps even relocate the folder to avoid future conflicts:

         sudo chown -R root:root /home/username/

         sudo mkdir /home/archived_users/

         sudo mv /home/username /home/archived_users/

       LOCK OR UNLOCK A PASSWORD

       To temporarily lock a user password, use the following syntax:

         sudo passwd -l username

       Similarly, to unlock a user password:

         sudo passwd -u username

       ADD OR DELETE A GROUP

       To add or delete a personalised group, use the following syntax, respectively:

         sudo addgroup groupname

         sudo delgroup groupname

       ADD A USER TO A GROUP

       To add a user to a group, use the following syntax:

         sudo adduser username groupname

       USER PROFILE SECURITY

       When a new user is created, the adduser utility creates a brand new home directory named /home/username. The default profile is modelled after the contents found in the directory of /etc/skel, which includes all profile basics.

       If your server will be home to multiple users, you should pay close attention to the user home directory permissions to ensure confidentiality.

       Home directories are created with private permissions (0750 or drwxr-x---) by default. This ensures that only the user and members of their group can access the directory.

       Home directories were created with world read/execute permissions (0755 or drwxr-xr-x) by default. This meant that all users on the system could browse and access the contents of other users home directories, which may not be suitable for your environment.

       To verify your current user home directory permissions, use the following syntax:

         ls -ld /home/username

         drwxr-xr-x  2 username username    4096 2007-10-02 20:03 username

       The output shows that the directory /home/username has world-readable permissions. You can remove the world readable-permissions using the following command:

         sudo chmod 0750 /home/username

       > Note: Some people use the recursive option (-R) indiscriminately, which modifies all child folders and files. However, this is not necessary and may have undesirable/unintended consequences. Modifying only the parent directory is enough to prevent unauthorised access to anything below the parent.
       A more efficient approach would be to modify the adduser global default permissions when creating user home folders. To do this, edit the /etc/adduser.conf file and modify the DIR_MODE variable to something appropriate, so that all new home directories will receive the correct permissions.

         DIR_MODE=0750

       After correcting the directory permissions using any of the previously mentioned techniques, verify the results as follows:

         ls -ld /home/username

         drwxr-x---   2 username username    4096 2007-10-02 20:03 username

       PASSWORD POLICY

       A strong password policy is one of the most important aspects of your security posture. Many successful security breaches involve simple brute force and dictionary attacks against weak passwords.

       If you intend to offer any form of remote access involving your local password system, make sure you address minimum password complexity requirements, maximum password lifetimes, and frequent audits of your authentication systems.

       MINIMUM PASSWORD LENGTH

       By default, Ubuntu requires a minimum password length of 6 characters, as well as some basic entropy checks. These values are controlled in the file /etc/pam.d/common-password, which is outlined below.

         password        [success=1 default=ignore]      pam_unix.so obscure sha512

       To adjust the minimum length to 8 characters, change the appropriate variable to minlen=8. The modification is outlined below:

         password        [success=1 default=ignore]      pam_unix.so obscure sha512 minlen=8

       > Note: Basic password entropy checks and minimum length rules do not apply to the administrator using sudo-level commands to setup a new user.

       PASSWORD EXPIRATION

       When creating user accounts, you should make it a policy to have a minimum and maximum password age, forcing users to change their passwords when they expire.

       To view the current status of a user account:

         sudo chage -l username

       The output below shows interesting facts about the user account, namely that there are no policies applied:

         Last password change                                    : Jan 20, 2015
         Password expires                                        : never
         Password inactive                                       : never
         Account expires                                         : never
         Minimum number of days between password change          : 0
         Maximum number of days between password change          : 99999
         Number of days of warning before password expires       : 7

       To set any of these values, use the chage ("change age") command, and follow the interactive prompts:

         sudo chage username

       The following is also an example of how you can manually change the explicit expiration date (-E) to 01/31/2015, minimum password age (-m) of 5 days, maximum password age (-M) of 90 days, inactivity period (-I) of 30 days after password expiration, and a warning time period (-W) of 14 days before password expiration:

         sudo chage -E 01/31/2015 -m 5 -M 90 -I 30 -W 14 username

       To verify changes, use the same syntax as mentioned previously:

         sudo chage -l username

       The output below shows the new policies that have been established for the account:

         Last password change                                    : Jan 20, 2015
         Password expires                                        : Apr 19, 2015
         Password inactive                                       : May 19, 2015
         Account expires                                         : Jan 31, 2015
         Minimum number of days between password change          : 5
         Maximum number of days between password change          : 90
         Number of days of warning before password expires       : 14

       OTHER SECURITY CONSIDERATIONS

       Many applications use alternate authentication mechanisms that can be easily overlooked by even experienced system administrators. Therefore, it is important to understand and control how users authenticate and gain access to services and applications on your server.

       SSH ACCESS BY DISABLED PASSWORDS

       Disabling or locking a user password will not prevent a user from logging into your server remotely if they have previously set up SSH public key authentication. They will still be able to gain shell access to the server, without the need for any password. Remember to check the user's home directory for files that will allow for this type of authenticated SSH access, e.g. /home/username/.ssh/authorized_keys.

       Remove or rename the directory .ssh/ in the user's home folder to prevent further SSH authentication access.

       Be sure to check for any established SSH connections by the disabled account, as it is possible they may have existing inbound or outbound connections -- then pkill any that are found.

         w | grep username  (to get the pts/# terminal)

         sudo pkill -f pts/#

       Restrict SSH access to only user accounts that should have it. For example, you may create a group called sshlogin and add the group name as the value associated with the AllowGroups variable located in the file /etc/ssh/sshd_config:

         AllowGroups sshlogin

       Then add your permitted SSH users to the group sshlogin, and restart the SSH service.

         sudo adduser username sshlogin

         sudo systemctl restart ssh.service

       EXTERNAL USER DATABASE AUTHENTICATION

       Most enterprise networks require centralised authentication and access controls for all system resources. If you have configured your server to authenticate users against external databases, be sure to disable the user accounts both externally and locally. This way you ensure that local fallbacks authentication is not possible.

Ubuntu Server manual                    from the official documentation
