UBUNTU.HOW-TO-SAMBA-PRINT-SERVER(1) Sandbox manual UBUNTU.HOW-TO-SAMBA-PRINT-SERVER(1)

       NAME

       Set up Samba as a print server - Another common way to network Ubuntu and Windows computers is to configure Samba as a print server. This will allow it to share printers ins

       SET UP SAMBA AS A PRINT SERVER

       Another common way to network Ubuntu and Windows computers is to configure Samba as a print server. This will allow it to share printers installed on an Ubuntu server, whether locally or over the network.

       Just as we did in using Samba as a file server, this section will configure Samba to allow any client on the local network to use the installed printers without prompting for a username and password.

       If your environment requires stricter Access Controls see share-access-controls.

       INSTALL AND CONFIGURE CUPS

       Before installing and configuring Samba as a print server, it is best to already have a working CUPS installation. See our guide on CUPS for details.

       INSTALL SAMBA

       To install the samba package, run the following command in your terminal:

         sudo apt install samba

       CONFIGURE SAMBA

       After installing samba, edit /etc/samba/smb.conf. Change the workgroup attribute to what is appropriate for your network:

         workgroup = EXAMPLE

       In the [printers] section, change the guest ok option to 'yes':

         browsable = yes
         guest ok = yes

       After editing smb.conf, restart Samba:

         sudo systemctl restart smbd.service nmbd.service

       The default Samba configuration will automatically share any printers installed. Now all you need to do is install the printer locally on your Windows clients.

       FURTHER READING

        * For in-depth Samba configurations see the Samba HOWTO Collection.
        * The guide is also available in printed format.
        * O'Reilly's Using Samba is another good reference.
        * Also, see the CUPS Website for more information on configuring CUPS.
        * The Ubuntu Wiki Samba page.

Ubuntu Server manual                    from the official documentation
