UBUNTU.TUTORIAL-ATTACH-YOUR-UBUNTU-PRO-SUBSCRIPTION(1) Sandbox manual UBUNTU.TUTORIAL-ATTACH-YOUR-UBUNTU-PRO-SUBSCRIPTION(1)

       NAME

       Attach your Ubuntu Pro subscription - Attaching the Ubuntu Pro subscription to Ubuntu brings you the enterprise lifecycle, including Linux kernel livepatching, access to FIPS-val

       ATTACH YOUR UBUNTU PRO SUBSCRIPTION

       Attaching the Ubuntu Pro subscription to Ubuntu brings you the enterprise lifecycle, including Linux kernel livepatching, access to FIPS-validated packages, and compliance with security profiles such as CIS or DISA-STIG. This is not required for Ubuntu Pro instances through public clouds such as AWS, Azure or GCP, since these are automatically attached from launch.

       > Note: Subscriptions are not just for enterprise customers. Anyone can get a personal subscription for free on up to 5 machines, or 50 if you are an official Ubuntu Community member.
       The following instructions explain how to attach your subscription to your Ubuntu systems.

       STEP 1: INSTALL THE UBUNTU PRO CLIENT

       This step is necessary for Ubuntu Pro users or holders of personal subscriptions. If you are an Ubuntu Pro user through a public cloud offering, your subscription is already attached and you can skip these instructions.

       First, make sure that you have the latest version of the Ubuntu Pro Client running. The package used to access the Pro Client (pro) is ubuntu-pro-client:

         sudo apt update && sudo apt install ubuntu-pro-client

       Most systems will have ubuntu-pro-client installed by default. If that is the case, this install command will upgrade the package to the latest version.

       STEP 2: ATTACH YOUR SUBSCRIPTION

       To attach your machine to a subscription, run the following command in your terminal:

         sudo pro attach

       > Note: For users who need to attach many systems or automate the process, as in many enterprise scenarios, there are parameters to the attach command to help you. Please check the Ubuntu Pro documentation for attaching your system with a configuration file
       After running the command, you should see output like this, giving you a link and a code:

         sudo pro attach

         Initiating attach operation...

         Please sign in to your Ubuntu Pro account at this link:
         https://ubuntu.com/pro/attach
         And provide the following code: H31JIV

       Open the link without closing your terminal window.

       In the field that asks you to enter your code, copy and paste the code shown in the terminal. Then, choose which subscription you want to attach to. By default, the Free Personal Token will be selected.

       If you have a paid subscription and want to attach to a different token, you may want to log in first so that your additional tokens will appear.

       Once you have pasted your code and chosen the subscription you want to attach your machine to, click on the “Submit” button.

       The attach process will then continue in the terminal window, and you should eventually be presented with the following message:

         Attaching the machine...
         Enabling Ubuntu Pro: ESM Apps
         Ubuntu Pro: ESM Apps enabled
         Enabling Ubuntu Pro: ESM Infra
         Ubuntu Pro: ESM Infra enabled
         Enabling Livepatch
         Livepatch enabled
         This machine is now attached to 'Ubuntu Pro - free personal subscription'

       When the machine has successfully been attached, you will also see a summary of which services are enabled and information about your subscription.

       Available services can be enabled or disabled on the command line with pro enable and pro disable after you have attached.

       NEXT STEPS

        * For more information about the Ubuntu Pro Client, you can read our documentation.
        * For a guided tour through the most commonly-used commands available through the Ubuntu Pro Client, check out this tutorial.

Ubuntu Server manual                    from the official documentation
