ROCKY.EDITORS-ROCKSMARKER(1)     Sandbox manual     ROCKY.EDITORS-ROCKSMARKER(1)

       NAME

       Rocksmarker - Rocksmarker began life as an idea to base an editor focused on Markdown by using Neovim as the base. The first commit for this project was i

       ROCKSMARKER

       INTRODUCTION

       Rocksmarker began life as an idea to base an editor focused on Markdown by using Neovim as the base. The first commit for this project was in November 2024, and quickly became a usable, if not quite mature, product. The deputy team lead for the documentation project began using Rocksmarker in early 2025. Though projects such as these are always under development, it is now a mature and functional IDE. If you have a love for text-based editors and Neovim, I hope you will love Rocksmarker as much as the documentation team deputy does.

       NEOVIM IDE FOR MARKDOWN DOCUMENTATION

       Rocksmarker is an experimental Neovim configuration designed to transform Neovim into a specialized IDE for Markdown-based documentation. It combines Neovim's extensibility with a curated selection of Lua plugins to create a focused, efficient, and feature-rich environment for technical writing, code documentation, and structured content creation.

       

       Built for developers and technical writers, Rocksmarker eliminates workflow fragmentation by integrating real-time Markdown rendering, LSP-powered code intelligence, and modular plugin management into a unified editing experience. Unlike generic text editors, Rocksmarker prioritizes clarity, precision, and productivity, ensuring that writing, coding, and formatting occur in a single, cohesive interface.

       By leveraging rocks.nvim for plugin management and Lumen-OSS tools for configuration, Rocksmarker simplifies set up while maintaining flexibility and performance. Whether drafting API documentation, tutorials, or code-heavy articles, Rocksmarker provides the tools and workflows needed to produce high-quality content without leaving the editor. Its declarative, Lua-driven architecture guarantees reproducibility, stability, and ease of maintenance, making it an ideal choice for who demand both power and simplicity in their documentation toolchain.

       MARKDOWN EDITING

       Rocksmarker enhances Neovim as a powerful Markdown editor through two core plugins:

        * render-markdown.nvim
       Provides real-time visual rendering of Markdown elements such as headings, code blocks and lists directly in the editor. This eliminates the need for external previews, allowing you to see formatted content as you write.

        * markdown-plus.nvim
       Introduces modern editing features, including:

            * Smart list management (auto-continuation, indentation, and reordering).
            * Text formatting shortcuts for bold, italics, links, and code spans.
            * Efficient navigation between sections and references.
       

       Together, these plugins streamline drafting, structuring, and refining documentation while maintaining focus and productivity.

       LANGUAGE SERVER PROTOCOL

       Rocksmarker uses Neovim's native LSP client to deliver robust support for Markdown syntax, structure, and content quality. The integration includes the following LSP servers for specific tasks:

        * marksman
       validates Markdown syntax, ensuring correct tag usage, proper indentation, and right nesting of elements (e.g., headers, lists, code blocks, tables).

        * rumdl
       validates and manipulates Markdown code, guaranteeing syntactic correctness and enabling programmatic modifications, such as restructuring or reformatting content.

        * vale_ls
       enforces style guidelines, grammatical accuracy, and consistency in written content.

        * harper_ls
       performs advanced linting for readability and tone, ensuring professional and accessible text.

       This setup ensures Markdown files remain structurally sound, functionally correct, and aligned with high standards of clarity and style.

       

       The LSP workflow in Rocksmarker relies on three core plugins:

        * mason.nvim
       Automates the installation and management of language servers, reducing manual setup. It handles versioning, dependencies, and path configurations, ensuring that the correct LSP servers are always available for your project.

        * nvim-lspconfig
       Provides configured settings for a wide range of languages (e.g., Markdown, Lua, Rust). This plugin simplifies LSP integration, allowing you to enable language-specific features such as hover documentation, symbol navigation, and code actions with minimal configuration.

        * mason-lspconfig.nvim
       Bridges mason.nvim and nvim-lspconfig, automating the association between installed servers and their configurations. It ensures that language servers are correctly initialized when opening files, maintaining consistency across projects.

       Rocksmarker delivers a unified editing experience by enabling users to write, debug, and document code within a single environment, eliminating tool switching. It enhances efficiency through autocompletion, linting, and real-time error detection directly in Markdown, minimizing the risk of undocumented or nonfunctional code snippets.

       The solution scales effectively by supporting many languages in the same project, making it suitable for polyglot documentation, such as tutorials with code examples in different languages. Performance stays optimal, as language servers operate asynchronously to keep editor responsiveness even during resource-intensive tasks for project-wide symbol analysis.

       PLUGIN MANAGEMENT

       rocks.nvim is a Lua-based plugin manager for Neovim, designed to streamline dependency management through Luarocks, the standard package manager for Lua modules. Unlike traditional plugin managers, rocks.nvim treats plugins as Luarocks packages, enabling direct installation, updates, and management within Neovim's Lua runtime. This ensures version consistency, automatic dependency resolution, and seamless integration with Neovim's native features.

       

       The manager uses a declarative configuration approach, where users define plugins in a structured Lua table for consistent environment setup. It optimizes performance with fast loading and minimal overhead, reducing startup time. rocks.nvim maintains full compatibility with Neovim's Lua API, LSP, Tree-sitter, and other modern features.

       

       By using rocks.nvim, Rocksmarker ensures a reliable and maintainable plugin ecosystem, where each component is explicitly declared and version-locked.

       CORE PLUGINS

       Rocksmarker integrates a curated set of plugins to enhance functionality and user experience:

       UI AND NAVIGATION

        * mini.theme and nvim-highlight-colors
       Offer a cohesive visual theme and syntax highlighting for colors in code and Markdown.

        * mini.icons and mini.pairs
       Improve visual clarity with file-type icons and automatic bracket pairing.

        * lualine.nvim and bufferline.nvim
       Deliver a customizable status line and efficient buffer management for quick file navigation.

        * gitsigns.nvim
       Displays Git changes directly in the editor, enabling real-time version control feedback.

        * which-key.nvim
       Offers a menu for key bindings improving accessibility and workflow efficiency.

        * rainbow-delimiters.nvim
       Enhances code readability by color-coding nested delimiters.

        * persisted.nvim
       Manages session persistence, allowing users to restore their workspace state.

        * snacks.nvim
       Provides utility functions for module reloading, setting toggles, and window management.

        * grug-far.nvim
       Enables advanced search-and-replace operations across files.

        * neogit
       Integrates a Git interface directly within Neovim for streamlined version control.

       AUTOCOMPLETION

        * blink.cmp
       Offers intelligent, context-aware code completion for faster development.

        * luasnip
       Provides snippet expansion and management, supporting dynamic and customizable code templates.

       DIAGNOSTICS AND FORMATTING

        * nvim-lint
       Performs asynchronous linting to enforce code quality and adherence to standards.

        * conform.nvim
       Ensures consistent code formatting across embedded blocks in Markdown.

        * trouble.nvim
       Provides a streamlined diagnostic viewer for navigating and resolving errors from LSP and linters.

       This plugin architecture ensures that Rocksmarker stays lightweight and adaptable, while offering a cohesive experience for technical writing and code documentation. We select each plugin for stability, functionality, and compatibility, aligning with Rocksmarker's goal of a distraction-free, powerful Markdown IDE.

       INSTALLATION

       This guide outlines the step-by-step process for installing Rocksmarker. You will configure Neovim, prepare the Lua 5.1 environment, and apply Rocksmarker settings. Each step ensures proper setup, performance optimization, and smooth integration with your development environment. By the end, you will have a fully operational Rocksmarker instance ready for advanced editing and plugin management.

       PREREQUISITES

       SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

        * Operating system:
       Rocky Linux 10 (or a compatible distribution such as RHEL or CentOS, Fedora)

        * Administrative permissions:
       Required to install Neovim and the required packages and configure Lua 5.1

        * Enable CRB repository:
       (for ninja-build)

             sudo dnf config-manager --set-enabled crb

        * Packages: Install the following packages:

             sudo dnf install -y epel-release yum-utils npm ncurses readline-devel icu ninja-build cmake gcc make unzip gettext curl glibc-gconv-extra tar git

       > About crb:
       Red Hat's CodeReady Builder (CRB) repository provides additional development tools, libraries, and dependencies for Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) and compatible distributions. Designed to complement the base RHEL repositories, CRB offers open source packages commonly required for software development, debugging, and system administration.

       > Rocky linux version:
       Rocksmarker requires Rocky Linux 10 or later.

       Rocky Linux 9 and earlier versions use glibc 2.34, which is outdated and causes compatibility issues, especially with tools like rumdl and vale for code linting and analysis.

       Upgrade to Rocky Linux 10 to ensure full functionality.

       > Getting around the glibc version issue with a container.:
       You can get around the glibc issue in older Rocky Linux versions by building Rocksmarker in a Rocky Linux 10.x container instead.

       INSTALL NEOVIM FROM SOURCE

       To achieve the best performance and compatibility with Rocksmarker, compile Neovim from source. This method guarantees access to the new features, performance optimizations, and complete plugin support for Tree-sitter and LSP.

       The result is a system-optimized Neovim installation that aligns with Rocksmarker's requirements.

        * Clone the Neovim repository
       Retrieve the latest Neovim source code from GitHub:

         git clone https://github.com/neovim/neovim
         cd neovim/

        * Select the stable branch
       Switch to the stable branch for a production-ready release:

         git checkout stable

       > Using stable release:
       Omitting this step defaults to the development branch (0.13+), which might contain unfinished or experimental features.

        * Compile with optimization
       Build Neovim by using make with Release optimizations for performance:

         make CMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Release

        * Install system-wide
       Install the compiled binary to the system:

         sudo make install

        * Installation check

         nvim --version
         NVIM v0.12.2
         Build type: Release
         LuaJIT 2.1.1774638290
         Run "nvim -V1 -v" for more info

       This process ensures a clean, optimized Neovim installation from source.

       INSTALL LUA 5.1

       LUA VERSION REQUIREMENT

       Rocksmarker mandates Lua 5.1 as the default runtime for rocks.nvim to ensure full compatibility and operational stability. This version alignment guarantees optimal performance, reliable plugin execution, and seamless interaction with Neovim's core systems. Using Lua 5.1 eliminates version conflicts and provides the foundation for Rocksmarker's dependency management and feature set.

        * Fetch the Lua 5.1.5 source archive:

         curl -O https://www.lua.org/ftp/lua-5.1.5.tar.gz

        * Unpack the downloaded source:

         tar xzf lua-5.1.5.tar.gz
         cd lua-5.1.5

        * Build and run tests to verify functionality:

         make linux test

        * Install to the default system location:

         sudo make install

       This completes the installation of Lua 5.1, providing the required runtime for Neovim plugins and scripting.

       > Installation path:
       This will install lua 5.1 to /usr/local/bin and its headers to /usr/local/include.

       CONFIGURE LUA FOR ROCKS.NVIM

       This configuration isolates rocks.nvim from system-wide Lua installations, guaranteeing plugin stability, consistent dependency resolution through Luarocks, and predictable behavior.

       > Warning - important step:
       Omitting this step risks plugin loading issues and inconsistent performance. Proper setup ensures Rocksmarker operates as intended.

        * Append an alias for Lua 5.1 to the shell configuration:

         echo "alias lua='/usr/local/bin/lua'" >> ~/.bashrc

        * Apply the updated configuration:

         . ~/.bashrc

        * Confirm the installed Lua version:

         lua -v

        * Expected output

         Lua 5.1.5  Copyright (C) 1994-2012 Lua.org, PUC-Rio

       LUA HEADER SYMLINKS

       When installing Lua 5.1 for use with rocks.nvim and Rocksmarker, linking the Lua headers is essential because Luarocks requires access to these header files during the compilation and installation of Lua modules.

       The headers contain definitions and declarations necessary for building native Lua extensions and ensuring compatibility between Lua and the system libraries.

        * Move to the system headers location:

         cd /usr/include/

        * Create a symbolic link

         sudo mkdir lua && cd lua
         sudo ln -s /usr/local/include/ 5.1

       This ensures the system can locate Lua 5.1 headers during compilation, enabling compatibility with Neovim and other lua-dependent applications.

       DOWNLOAD CONFIGURATION

       Rocksmarker provides two distinct setup configurations, tailored to your workflow needs:

       Primary Neovim Environment : Replace your existing Neovim configuration with Rocksmarker, making it your default editing environment. This approach is ideal for users who want a fully integrated, production-ready setup with all features enabled out of the box.

       Isolated Testing Configuration : Install Rocksmarker as a standalone configuration, keeping your current Neovim setup intact. This option is perfect for evaluation, development, or experimentation without affecting your main workflow.

       Both methods ensure a seamless experience, whether you seek a permanent upgrade or a sandboxed trial. Choose based on your preference for stability or flexibility.

       Main editor: Use this option if you want Rocksmarker to be your default Neovim configuration for daily use.

             git clone https://github.com/ambaradan/rocksmarker.git ~/.config/nvim

       Secondary editor: Use this option if you want to test Rocksmarker without affecting your current Neovim setup.

             git clone https://github.com/ambaradan/rocksmarker.git ~/.config/rocksmarker/

       This starts Neovim by using the Rocksmarker configuration, leaving your main setup unchanged.

       !!! admonition "Create an alias for easier access"

                 echo "alias rocksmarker='NVIM_APPNAME=rocksmarker nvim'" >> ~/.bashrc
                 . ~/.bashrc

       INSTALL THE CONFIGURATION

       LAUNCH NEOVIM

       Main editor: nvim

       Secondary editor: NVIM_APPNAME=rocksmarker nvim

       ROCKS.NVIM INSTALLATION

        * A bootstrap script will automatically install the rocks.nvim plugin manager.
       

       SYNCHRONIZE PLUGINS

        * Follow the instructions on the screen and accept the synchronization
       of all plugins.

       

       > Plugins path:
       Plugins install to:

       .local/share/nvim/rocks/lib/luarocks/rocks-5.1/

       RESTART NEOVIM

        * Close and reopen Neovim to load the new configurations.
       > Automatic lsp installation:
       On the second startup, the mason-lspconfig and mason-tool-installer plugins will automatically install all necessary language servers, linters and formatters.

       TROUBLESHOOTING

        * Logs: If you meet issues, check the installation logs with :Rocks log
        * Dependencies: Install all required system dependencies, such as git,
       curl, and gcc

        * Lua Version: Ensure Lua 5.1 is the default version to keep compatibility
       with rocks.nvim

       NEXT STEPS

        * Verify installation:
       Open a Markdown file or run :checkhealth to ensure everything is working correctly.

        * Start using Rocksmarker:
       Your environment is now ready for Markdown editing, coding, or any other task.

       REFERENCES

        * Lumen-OSS
       Organization focused on modernizing the Lua ecosystem. Lumen Labs develops tools such as Lux (package manager), Luanox (module hosting), and integration solutions for applications using Lua as a scripting language.

        * Luarocks
       Portal for distributing Luarocks packages, including those used in Rocksmarker.

        * mkdocs-material
       Documentation theme for Mkdocs, referenced for custom snippets in Rocksmarker.

        * CRB repository (CodeReady Linux Builder)
       Required repository for installing development tools on Rocky Linux.

        * Neovim Build Instructions
       Official guide for building Neovim from source.

        * Lua Official Download Page
       Source for downloading Lua 5.1, required for compatibility with Luarocks-based plugins.

        * Rocksmarker Framagit Repository
       Main repository for the Rocksmarker configuration.

        * Rocksmarker Guide
       English guide for Rocksmarker configuration and usage (under development).

Rocky Linux manual                      from the official documentation
