ROCKY.TROUBLESHOOTING-KERNEL_PANIC(1) Sandbox manual ROCKY.TROUBLESHOOTING-KERNEL_PANIC(1)

       NAME

       How to deal with a kernel panic - Sometimes, a kernel installation goes wrong, and you have to backtrack.

       HOW TO DEAL WITH A KERNEL PANIC

       INTRODUCTION

       Sometimes, a kernel installation goes wrong, and you have to backtrack.

       There can be many reasons for this, such as insufficient space on the /boot partition, an interrupted installation, or a problem with a third-party application.

       Fortunately for us, there is always something we can do to save the day.

       TRY TO REBOOT WITH THE PREVIOUS KERNEL

       The first thing to try is to reboot with the previous kernel.

        * Restart the system.
        * Once you have reached the GRUB 2 boot screen, move the selection to the menu entry corresponding to the previous kernel and press the enter key.
       Once the system has restarted, you can repair it.

       If the system does not boot, try the rescue mode (see above).

       UNINSTALL THE BROKEN KERNEL

       The easiest way to do this is to uninstall the kernel version that is not working and then reinstall it.

       > Note:
       You cannot remove a kernel that you are running.

       To show the version of the currently running kernel:

             uname -r

       To check the list of installed kernels:

         dnf list installed kernel\* | sort -V

       But the following command is perhaps more practical since it only returns packages with several versions installed:

         dnf repoquery --installed --installonly

       To remove a specific kernel, you can use dnf, specifying the kernel version you retrieved earlier:

         dnf remove kernel-core-<version>

       Example:

         dnf remove kernel-5.14.0-427.20.1.el9_4.x86_64

       or use the dnf repoquery command:

         dnf remove $(dnf repoquery --installed --installonly --latest=1)

       You can now upgrade your system and try reinstalling the latest kernel version.

         dnf update

       Reboot and see if the new kernel works this time.

       RESCUE MODE

       Rescue mode corresponds to the old single-user mode.

       > Note:
       To enter in rescue mode, you have to provide the root password.

       To enter rescue mode, the easiest way is to select the line starting with 0-rescue-* in the grub menu.

       Another way is to edit any line of the grub menu (pressing the 'e' key) and add systemd.unit=rescue.target at the end of the line that starts with linux and then press ctrl+x to boot the system into rescue mode.

       > Note:
       You are then in qwerty mode.

       You can repair your system once you are in rescue mode and have entered the root password.

       For that, you might need to configure a temporary IP address using ip ad add ... (see the network chapter of our admin guide).

       LAST CHANCE: ANACONDA RESCUE MODE

       If none of the above methods work, you can still boot from the installation ISO and repair the system.

       This documentation does not cover this method.

       SYSTEM MAINTENANCE

       CLEANING OLD KERNEL VERSIONS

       You can remove old installed kernel packages, keeping only the latest version and version of the running kernel:

         dnf remove --oldinstallonly

       LIMITING THE NUMBER OF INSTALLED KERNEL VERSIONS

       We can limit the number of kernel versions by editing the /etc/yum.conf file and setting the installonly_limit variable:

         installonly_limit=3

       > Note:
       You should always keep at least the latest kernel version and a backup version.

Rocky Linux manual                      from the official documentation
