ROCKY.UPDATE_VERSIONS(1)         Sandbox manual         ROCKY.UPDATE_VERSIONS(1)

       NAME

       Rocky supported version upgrades - Since day one of the Rocky Linux project, some have asked: ==How do you upgrade from CentOS 7 to Rocky 8, or Rocky 8 to Rocky 9?== The answe

       ROCKY SUPPORTED VERSION UPGRADES

       OR How to duplicate any Rocky machine.

       INTRODUCTION

       Since day one of the Rocky Linux project, some have asked: ==How do you upgrade from CentOS 7 to Rocky 8, or Rocky 8 to Rocky 9?== The answer is always the same: The project does not support in-place upgrades of one major version to another major version. You need to reinstall to move to the next major version. To be clear, this IS the correct answer. This document helps users move from one major version to the next, using the correct Rocky-supported procedure for a fresh installation. You can also use this method to rebuild the same Rocky Linux version. For example, install 9.5 to a fresh 9.5 with all the packages.

       > Caveats:
       Even given this procedure, many things can go wrong when going from an older version of one operating system (OS) to a newer version of the same or different OS. Programs become obsolete and replaced by the maintainers with completely different package names, or the names do not match up from one OS to the next. Also, know about your machine's software repositories and verify they are still functional for the new OS. If going from a much older version to a much newer one, ensure that your CPU and other machine requirements match the new prerequisites. For these and many different reasons, you must remain cautious and note any errors or problems while performing this procedure. Here, the author has used Rocky Linux 8 as the old version and Rocky Linux 9 as the new major version. The formulation of all examples uses these two versions. You can always go ahead and proceed at your own risk.

       STEPS SUMMARY

        1. Obtain a list of users from the old installation (userid.txt).
        2. Obtain a list of the enabled modules (8 and 9 only) (modules.txt).
        3. Obtain a list of repositories from the old installation (repolist.txt).
        4. Obtain a list of packages from the old installation (installed.txt).
        5. Backup all data, configuration, utilities, and scripts from the old installation to a non-volatile location along with the .txt files created.
        6. Verify that the hardware you will be installing supports the operating system that you are installing. (CPU, memory, disk space, and so on.)
        7. Perform a fresh install of the operating system you use on the hardware.
        8. Do a dnf upgrade to get any packages that might have been updated since the ISO file's creation.
        9. Create any needed users by examining the userid.txt file.
        10. Install any missing repositories that are not Rocky-related in the repolist.txt file. (See notes for the EPEL and Code Ready Builder (CRB) repositories.)
        11. Install the packages using the procedure for the installed.txt file.

       STEPS DETAIL

       > Same version upgrades:
       As discussed earlier, this procedure should work equally well to duplicate a machine installation with the same operating system release, such as 8.10 to 8.10 or 9.5 to 9.5. The difference is that you should not need --skip-broken when installing the packages from the installed.txt file. If you get package errors when installing a version to the same version, you are probably missing a repository. Stop the procedure and re-examine the repolist.txt file. The examples here use 8.10 as the old installation and 9.5 as the new one.

       > Version upgrades work with 10 as well:
       There are many changes between 8.x, 9.x, and 10.x, but this procedure works for moving between older 8.x and 9.x installations to 10.x. Just keep in mind that the machine requirements for 10.x (CPU compatibility in particular) must be met prior to beginning the procedure.

       EXAMPLE OLD MACHINE

       The old machine used here is Rocky Linux 8. The installation includes several Extra Packages for Enterprise Linux (EPEL) repository packages.

       > Code ready builder:
       The Code Ready Builder (CRB) repository in Rocky Linux 9 replaces functionality in the deprecated PowerTools repository that existed in version 8. If moving from an 8 version to 9 where you have the EPEL, you will need to enable the CRB on your new machine with the following:

             sudo dnf config-manager --enable crb

       OBTAIN A LIST OF USERS

       You will need to manually create any users on the new machine, so you need to know what user accounts you will need to create. User accounts generally start at user id 1000 and increment upwards.

         sudo getent passwd > userid.txt

       OBTAIN A LIST OF MODULES

       Rocky 8.x and 9.x had modules. You need to track these modules when moving to a new OS version. Version 10 does NOT have modules, so if moving to Rocky 10.x, there is no need for this step.

         sudo dnf module list -enabled > modules.txt

       OBTAIN A LIST OF REPOSITORIES

       You need a list of the repositories that exist on the old machine:

         sudo ls -al /etc/yum.repos.d/ > repolist.txt

       OBTAIN A LIST OF PACKAGES

       Generate the package list with the following:

         sudo dnf list installed | awk 'NR>1 {print $1}' | sort -u > installed.txt

       Here, the NR>1 eliminates record one from the column, which has the "Installed" that came from the dnf list installed command. It is not a package, so you do not need it. The {print $1} means only use column one. You do not need the package version or the repository it came from in the listing.

       You will not need to install any kernel-related packages. It does not hurt to install them again if you leave this step out. You can remove the kernel lines with:

         sudo sed -i '/kernel/d' installed.txt

       > Alternative method for generating installed.txt:
       In the referenced forum post here, someone suggested another way to generate the installed.txt file. It is a simpler method that does not require the removal of column headers or repository info, so it might be better. Both methods work:

             rpm -qa > installed.txt

       You might still want to remove the kernel packages from the list.

       BACKUP ANY DATA

       This can encompass many things. Make sure you know the purpose of the machine you are replacing and all of its program components (database, mail server, DNS, and more). If you have any doubts, just back it up.

       COPY FILES

       Copy the text files you created to a non-volatile location and all the backup data.

       EXAMPLE NEW MACHINE

       Your fresh installation of Rocky Linux 9 is complete. You need to get any package updates since the creation of the ISO image:

         sudo dnf upgrade

       You are ready to start copying your text files and backups from where you stored them in the earlier procedure.

       CREATE THE USERS

       Examine the userid.txt file and create the users you need on the new machine.

       INSTALL THE REPOSITORIES

       Examine the repolist.txt file and manually install the repositories you need. You can ignore the Rocky-related repositories. Remember that we have packages from the EPEL, so you will need the CRB repository rather than PowerTools:

         sudo dnf config-manager --enable crb

       Install the EPEL:

         sudo dnf install epel-release

       Install any other repositories from the repolist.txt file that are not Rocky or EPEL-based.

       INSTALL THE PACKAGES

       Once installation of the repositories completes, try to install your packages from installed.txt:

         sudo dnf -y install $(cat installed.txt)

       Some packages will not exist between Rocky Linux 8 and Rocky Linux 9, regardless of the repositories you have enabled. Running this command gives you an idea of what those packages are.

       Here is what did not install on the author's test machine (reorganized as a column rather than a long string):

         Error: Unable to find a match:
         OpenEXR-libs.x86_64
         bind-export-libs.x86_64
         dhcp-libs.x86_64
         fontpackages-filesystem.noarch
         hardlink.x86_64
         ilmbase.x86_64
         libXxf86misc.x86_64
         libcroco.x86_64
         libmcpp.x86_64
         libreport-filesystem.x86_64
         mcpp.x86_64
         network-scripts.x86_64
         platform-python.x86_64
         platform-python-pip.noarch
         platform-python-setuptools.noarch
         xorg-x11-font-utils.x86_64

       > Note:
       If you need the functionality of these missing packages on your fresh install, save them in a file for use later. You can see the availability status of missing packages by using this command:

             sudo dnf whatprovides [package_name]

       Rerun the command, but this time with the --skip-broken appended to it:

         sudo dnf -y install $(cat installed.txt) --skip-broken

       Because you just made many changes, you should reboot before continuing.

       RESTORE YOUR BACKUPS

       Once you have all the packages installed, restore your backups, modified configuration files, scripts, and other utilities you backed up before moving to your new machine.

       CONCLUSION

       There is no magic routine (supported by Rocky Linux) to move from one major version to another. Rocky Linux developers support only a fresh install. The routine provided here allows you to move from one major version to another while following the Rocky team's best practices.

       This procedure assumes a simple installation. However, if your installation is complex, you might need to take more steps. You can use this procedure as a guide.

       DISCLAIMER

       While the basic document is the author's, two individuals in the [Forum] () suggested a cleaner way to generate the installed.txt and eliminated the kernel packages. Thanks to all who provided input on that procedure.

Rocky Linux manual                      from the official documentation
