HTTP.AUTH-AUTHENTICATION(1)      Sandbox manual      HTTP.AUTH-AUTHENTICATION(1)

       NAME

       HTTP authentication - HTTP provides a general framework for access control and authentication.

       HTTP AUTHENTICATION

       HTTP provides a general framework for access control and authentication. This page is an introduction to the HTTP framework for authentication, and shows how to restrict access to your server using the HTTP "Basic" scheme.

       THE GENERAL HTTP AUTHENTICATION FRAMEWORK

       7235 defines the HTTP authentication framework, which can be used by a server to challenge a client request, and by a client to provide authentication information.

       The challenge and response flow works like this:

        1. The server responds to a client with a 401 (Unauthorized) response status and provides information on how to authorize with a WWW-Authenticate response header containing at least one challenge.
        2. A client that wants to authenticate itself with the server can then do so by including an Authorization request header with the credentials.
        3. Usually a client will present a password prompt to the user and will then issue the request including the correct Authorization header.
       

       The general message flow above is the same for most (if not all) authentication schemes. The actual information in the headers and the way it is encoded does change!

       > The "Basic" authentication scheme used in the diagram above sends the credentials encoded but not encrypted.
       > This would be completely insecure unless the exchange was over a secure connection (HTTPS/TLS).

       PROXY AUTHENTICATION

       The same challenge and response mechanism can be used for _proxy authentication_. As both resource authentication and proxy authentication can coexist, a different set of headers and status codes is needed. In the case of proxies, the challenging status code is 407 (Proxy Authentication Required), the Proxy-Authenticate response header contains at least one challenge applicable to the proxy, and the Proxy-Authorization request header is used for providing the credentials to the proxy server.

       ACCESS FORBIDDEN

       If a (proxy) server receives _invalid_ credentials, it should respond with a 401 Unauthorized or with a 407 Proxy Authentication Required, and the user may send a new request or replace the Authorization header field.

       If a (proxy) server receives valid credentials that are _inadequate_ to access a given resource, the server should respond with the 403 Forbidden status code. Unlike 401 Unauthorized or 407 Proxy Authentication Required, authentication is impossible for this user and browsers will not propose a new attempt.

       In all cases, the server may prefer returning a 404 Not Found status code, to hide the existence of the page to a user without adequate privileges or not correctly authenticated.

       AUTHENTICATION OF CROSS-ORIGIN IMAGES

       A potential security hole (that has since been fixed in browsers) was authentication of cross-site images. From Firefox 59 onwards, image resources loaded from different origins to the current document are no longer able to trigger HTTP authentication dialogs (Firefox bug 1423146), preventing user credentials being stolen if attackers were able to embed an arbitrary image into a third-party page.

       CHARACTER ENCODING OF HTTP AUTHENTICATION

       Browsers use utf-8 encoding for usernames and passwords.

       Firefox once used ISO-8859-1, but changed to utf-8 for parity with other browsers and to avoid potential problems as described in Firefox bug 1419658.

       WWW-AUTHENTICATE AND PROXY-AUTHENTICATE HEADERS

       The WWW-Authenticate and Proxy-Authenticate response headers define the authentication method that should be used to gain access to a resource. They must specify which authentication scheme is used, so that the client that wishes to authorize knows how to provide the credentials.

       The syntax for these headers is the following:

         WWW-Authenticate: <type> realm=<realm>
         Proxy-Authenticate: <type> realm=<realm>

       Here, is the authentication scheme ("Basic" is the most common scheme and introduced below). The _realm_ is used to describe the protected area or to indicate the scope of protection. This could be a message like "Access to the staging site" or similar, so that the user knows to which space they are trying to get access to.

       AUTHORIZATION AND PROXY-AUTHORIZATION HEADERS

       The Authorization and Proxy-Authorization request headers contain the credentials to authenticate a user agent with a (proxy) server. Here, the is needed again followed by the credentials, which can be encoded or encrypted depending on which authentication scheme is used.

         Authorization: <type> <credentials>
         Proxy-Authorization: <type> <credentials>

       AUTHENTICATION SCHEMES

       The general HTTP authentication framework is the base for a number of authentication schemes.

       IANA maintains a list of authentication schemes, but there are other schemes offered by host services, such as Amazon AWS.

       Some common authentication schemes include:

        * Basic
          * : See , base64-encoded credentials. More information below.
        * Bearer
          * : See , bearer tokens to access OAuth 2.0-protected resources
        * Digest
          * : See . Firefox 93 and later support the SHA-256 algorithm. Previous versions only support MD5 hashing (not recommended).
        * HOBA
          * : See , Section 3, HTTP Origin-Bound Authentication, digital-signature-based
        * Mutual
          * : See
        * Negotiate / NTLM
          * : See RFC4599
        * VAPID
          * : See
        * SCRAM
          * : See
        * AWS4-HMAC-SHA256
          * : See AWS docs. This scheme is used for AWS3 server authentication.
       Schemes can differ in security strength and in their availability in client or server software.

       The "Basic" authentication scheme offers very poor security, but is widely supported and easy to set up. It is introduced in more detail below.

       BASIC AUTHENTICATION SCHEME

       The "Basic" HTTP authentication scheme is defined in , which transmits credentials as user ID/password pairs, encoded using base64.

       SECURITY OF BASIC AUTHENTICATION

       As the user ID and password are passed over the network as clear text (it is base64 encoded, but base64 is a reversible encoding), the basic authentication scheme is not secure. HTTPS/TLS should be used with basic authentication to prevent credential interception.

       In addition, sites that use HTTP Basic Auth are particularly vulnerable to Cross-Site Request Forgery (CSRF) attacks because the user credentials are sent in all requests regardless of origin (this differs cookie-based credential mechanisms, because cookies are commonly blocked in cross-site requests). Sites should always use the POST requests when changing data, and include CSRF tokens.

       Without these security enhancements, basic authentication should not be used to protect sensitive or valuable information.

       RESTRICTING ACCESS WITH APACHE AND BASIC AUTHENTICATION

       To password-protect a directory on an Apache server, you will need a .htaccess and a .htpasswd file.

       The .htaccess file typically looks like this:

         AuthType Basic
         AuthName "Access to the staging site"
         AuthUserFile /path/to/.htpasswd
         Require valid-user

       The .htaccess file references a .htpasswd file in which each line consists of a username and a password separated by a colon (:). You cannot see the actual passwords as they are hashed (using MD5-based hashing, in this case). Note that you can name your .htpasswd file differently if you like, but keep in mind this file shouldn't be accessible to anyone. (Apache is usually configured to prevent access to .ht* files).

         aladdin:$apr1$ZjTqBB3f$IF9gdYAGlMrs2fuINjHsz.
         user2:$apr1$O04r.y2H$/vEkesPhVInBByJUkXitA/

       RESTRICTING ACCESS WITH NGINX AND BASIC AUTHENTICATION

       For Nginx, you will need to specify a location that you are going to protect and the auth_basic directive that provides the name to the password-protected area. The auth_basic_user_file directive then points to a .htpasswd file containing the encrypted user credentials, just like in the Apache example above.

         location /status {
             auth_basic           "Access to the staging site";
             auth_basic_user_file /etc/apache2/.htpasswd;
         }

       ACCESS USING CREDENTIALS IN THE URL

       Historically some sites would allow you to log in using an encoded URL containing the username and the password as shown:

         https://username:password@www.example.com/

       This syntax is no longer allowed in modern browsers; the username and password are stripped from the request before it is sent.

       SEE ALSO

        * WWW-Authenticate
        * Authorization
        * Proxy-Authorization
        * Proxy-Authenticate
        * 401, 403, 407
        * HTTP Security Best Practices

HTTP manual                             from the official documentation
