HTTP.CORS-ERRORS-CORSMISSINGALLOWORIGIN(1) Sandbox manual HTTP.CORS-ERRORS-CORSMISSINGALLOWORIGIN(1)

       NAME

       Reason: CORS header 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' missing - The response to the CORS request is missing the required

       REASON: CORS HEADER 'ACCESS-CONTROL-ALLOW-ORIGIN' MISSING

       REASON

         Reason: CORS header 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' missing

       WHAT WENT WRONG

       The response to the CORS request is missing the required Access-Control-Allow-Origin header, which is used to determine whether or not the resource can be accessed by content operating within the current origin.

       If the server is under your control, add the origin of the requesting site to the set of domains permitted access by adding it to the Access-Control-Allow-Origin header's value.

       For example, to allow a site at https://example.com to access the resource using CORS, the header should be:

         Access-Control-Allow-Origin: https://example.com

       You can also configure a site to allow any site to access it by using the wildcard. You should only use this for public APIs. Private APIs should never use , and should instead have a specific domain or domains set. In addition, the wildcard only works for requests made with the crossorigin attribute set to anonymous, and it prevents sending credentials like cookies in requests.

         Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *

       > Using the wildcard to allow all sites to access a private
       > API is a bad idea.
       To allow any site to make CORS requests _without_ using the * wildcard (for example, to enable credentials), your server must read the value of the request's Origin header and use that value to set Access-Control-Allow-Origin, and must also set a Vary: Origin header to indicate that some headers are being set dynamically depending on the origin.

       EXAMPLES FOR COMMON WEB SERVERS

       The exact directive for setting headers depends on your web server.

       In the examples below,

       In Apache (docs), add a line such as the following to the server's configuration (within the appropriate , , , or section). The configuration is typically found in a .conf file (httpd.conf and apache.conf are common names for these), or in an .htaccess file:

         Header set Access-Control-Allow-Origin 'https://example.com'

       For Nginx (docs), the command to set up this header is:

         add_header 'Access-Control-Allow-Origin' 'https://example.com' always;

       IF YOU DON'T CONTROL THE SERVER

       If the remote server is not under your control and does not include the Access-Control-Allow-Origin header, you cannot fix this error on the server side. Consider these alternatives:

        * Restructure your request as a simple request to avoid triggering a preflight, if the server handles simple cross-origin requests.
        * If you don't need to read the response, use mode: "no-cors" in your fetch() call. The response will be opaque (unreadable), but the request will succeed.
        * Route the request through a proxy server you control, which fetches the resource and returns it with appropriate CORS headers.
       See Client-side considerations for more detail.

       SEE ALSO

        * CORS errors
        * Glossary: CORS
        * CORS introduction

HTTP manual                             from the official documentation
