HTTP.GUIDE-CROSS-ORIGIN-RESOURCE-POLICY(1) Sandbox manual HTTP.GUIDE-CROSS-ORIGIN-RESOURCE-POLICY(1)

       NAME

       Cross-Origin Resource Policy (CORP) - Cross-Origin Resource Policy is a policy set by the Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy HTTP header that lets websites and applications opt in to p

       CROSS-ORIGIN RESOURCE POLICY (CORP)

       Cross-Origin Resource Policy is a policy set by the Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy HTTP header that lets websites and applications opt in to protection against certain requests from other origins (such as those issued with elements like and ), to mitigate speculative side-channel attacks, like Spectre>), as well as Cross-Site Script Inclusion attacks. CORP is an additional layer of protection beyond the default same-origin policy.

       > The policy is only effective for no-cors requests, which are issued by default for CORS-safelisted methods/headers.
       As this policy is expressed via a _response header_, the actual request is not prevented—rather, the browser prevents the _result_ from being leaked by stripping the response body.

       USAGE

       > Due to a bug in Chrome, setting Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy can break PDF rendering, preventing visitors from being able to read past the first page of some PDFs. Exercise caution using this header in a production environment.
       Web applications set a Cross-Origin Resource Policy via the Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy HTTP response header, which accepts one of three values:

        * same-site
          * : Only requests from the same _Site_ can read the resource.
       > This is less secure than an origin. The algorithm for checking if two origins are same site is defined in the HTML standard and involves checking the _registrable domain_.
        * same-origin
          * : Only requests from the same _origin_ (i.e., scheme + host + port) can read the resource.
        * cross-origin
          * : Requests from any _origin_ (both same-site and cross-site) can read the resource. This is useful when COEP is used (see below).

         Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy: same-site | same-origin | cross-origin

       During a cross-origin resource policy check, if the header is set, the browser will deny no-cors requests issued from a different origin/site.

       RELATIONSHIP TO CROSS-ORIGIN EMBEDDER POLICY (COEP)

       The Cross-Origin-Embedder-Policy HTTP response header, when used upon a document, can be used to require subresources to either be same-origin with the document, or come with a Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy HTTP response header to indicate they are okay with being embedded. This is why the cross-origin value exists.

       HISTORY

       The concept was originally proposed in 2012 (as a From-Origin header), but resurrected in Q2 of 2018 and implemented in Safari and Chromium.

       In early 2018, two side-channel hardware vulnerabilities known as _Meltdown_ and _Spectre_ were disclosed. These vulnerabilities allowed sensitive data disclosure due to a race condition which arose as part of speculative execution functionality, designed to improve performance.

       Cross-Origin Resource Policy was developed as a direct way for sites to block unwanted no-cors cross-origin requests. This is an effective defense against Spectre-like attacks, as the browser strips the body from given responses before an attacker can access them.

       SPECIFICATIONS

       BROWSER COMPATIBILITY

       SEE ALSO

        * Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy HTTP Header

HTTP manual                             from the official documentation
