HTTP.HEADER-CRITICAL-CH(1)       Sandbox manual       HTTP.HEADER-CRITICAL-CH(1)

       NAME

       Critical-CH header - The HTTP Critical-CH response header is used along with Accept-CH to identify the accepted client hints that are critical.

       CRITICAL-CH HEADER

       {{non-standard_header}}

       The HTTP Critical-CH response header is used along with Accept-CH to identify the accepted client hints that are critical.

       User agents receiving a response with Critical-CH must check if the indicated critical headers were sent in the original request. If not, the user agent will retry the request along with the critical headers rather than render the page. This approach ensures that client preferences set using critical client hints are always used, even if not included in the first request, or following server configuration changes.

       Each header listed in the Critical-CH header should also be present in the Accept-CH and Vary headers.

       Header type Response header

       SYNTAX

         Critical-CH: <ch-list>

       DIRECTIVES

        * 
          * : A list of one or more comma-delimited client hint headers that the server considers to be critical client hints.

       EXAMPLES

       The client makes an initial request to the server:

         GET / HTTP/1.1
         Host: example.com

       The server responds, indicating via Accept-CH that it accepts Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion. In this example, Critical-CH is also used to specify that Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion is considered a critical client hint.

         HTTP/1.1 200 OK
         Content-Type: text/html
         Accept-CH: Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
         Vary: Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion
         Critical-CH: Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion

       > We've specified Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion in the Vary header to indicate that responses should be separately cached based on the value of this header (even if the URL stays the same).
       > Each header listed in the Critical-CH header should also be present in the Accept-CH and Vary headers.
       The client automatically retries the request (due to Critical-CH being specified above), telling the server via Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion that it has a user preference for reduced-motion animations:

         GET / HTTP/1.1
         Host: example.com
         Sec-CH-Prefers-Reduced-Motion: "reduce"

       The client will include the header in subsequent requests in the current session unless the Accept-CH changes in responses to indicate that it is no longer supported by the server.

       SPECIFICATIONS

       BROWSER COMPATIBILITY

       SEE ALSO

        * Client hints
        * User-Agent Client Hints API
        * Improving user privacy and developer experience with User-Agent Client Hints (developer.chrome.com)
        * Accept-CH
        * HTTP Caching: Vary and Vary
        * PerformanceNavigationTiming.criticalCHRestart

HTTP manual                             from the official documentation
