HTTP.HEADER-ACCESS-CONTROL-ALLOW-ORIGIN(1) Sandbox manual HTTP.HEADER-ACCESS-CONTROL-ALLOW-ORIGIN(1)

       NAME

       Access-Control-Allow-Origin header - The HTTP Access-Control-Allow-Origin response header indicates whether the response can be shared with requesting code from the given origin

       ACCESS-CONTROL-ALLOW-ORIGIN HEADER

       The HTTP Access-Control-Allow-Origin response header indicates whether the response can be shared with requesting code from the given origin.

       Header type Response header

       SYNTAX

         Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *
         Access-Control-Allow-Origin: <origin>
         Access-Control-Allow-Origin: null

       DIRECTIVES

        * * (wildcard)
          * : The requesting code from any origin is allowed to access the resource.
       For requests _without credentials_, the literal value * can be specified as a wildcard. Attempting to use the wildcard with credentials results in an error.

        * 
          * : Specifies a single origin. If the server supports clients from multiple origins, it must return the origin for the specific client making the request.
        * null
          * : Specifies the origin "null".
       > The value null should not be used. It may seem safe to return Access-Control-Allow-Origin: "null"; however, the origin of resources that use a non-hierarchical scheme (such as data: or file:) and sandboxed documents is serialized as null.
       > Many browsers will grant such documents access to a response with an Access-Control-Allow-Origin: null header, and any origin can create a hostile document with a null origin.
       > Therefore, the null value for the Access-Control-Allow-Origin header should be avoided.

       EXAMPLES

       A response that tells the browser to allow code from any origin to access a resource will include the following:

         Access-Control-Allow-Origin: *

       A response that tells the browser to allow requesting code from the origin https://developer.mozilla.org to access a resource will include the following:

         Access-Control-Allow-Origin: https://developer.mozilla.org

       Limiting the possible Access-Control-Allow-Origin values to a set of allowed origins requires code on the server side to check the value of the Origin request header, compare that to a list of allowed origins, and then if the Origin value is in the list, set the Access-Control-Allow-Origin value to the same value as the Origin value.

       CORS AND CACHING

       Suppose the server sends a response with an Access-Control-Allow-Origin value with an explicit origin (rather than the * wildcard). In that case, the response should also include a Vary response header with the value Origin — to indicate to browsers that server responses can differ based on the value of the Origin request header.

         Access-Control-Allow-Origin: https://developer.mozilla.org
         Vary: Origin

       SPECIFICATIONS

       BROWSER COMPATIBILITY

       SEE ALSO

        * Origin
        * Vary
        * Cross-Origin Resource Sharing (CORS)
        * Cross-Origin-Resource-Policy

HTTP manual                             from the official documentation
