HTTP.HEADER-SEC-CH-PREFERS-COLOR-SCHEME(1) Sandbox manual HTTP.HEADER-SEC-CH-PREFERS-COLOR-SCHEME(1)

       NAME

       Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme header - The HTTP Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme request header is a media feature client hint which provides the user's preference for light or dark co

       SEC-CH-PREFERS-COLOR-SCHEME HEADER

       The HTTP Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme request header is a media feature client hint which provides the user's preference for light or dark color themes. A user indicates their preference through an operating system setting (for example, light or dark mode) or a user agent setting.

       If a server signals to a client via the Accept-CH header that it accepts Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme, the client can then respond with this header to indicate the user's preference for a specific color scheme. The server can send the client appropriately adapted content including images or CSS to display a light or dark mode for subsequent rendered content.

       This header is modeled on the prefers-color-scheme media query.

       Header type Request header, Client hint Forbidden request header Yes (Sec- prefix)

       USAGE NOTES

       The Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme header allows sites to obtain user color scheme preference at request time; they could then choose to provide the relevant CSS for the user's preference inline, for performance reasons. If the server inlines the CSS, it might want to include a Vary response header specifying Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme, to indicate that the response is tailored for a particular color scheme.

       If performance is not a critical consideration in this context, you could instead handle the user's color scheme preference using the @media/prefers-color-scheme media query, and/or the Window.matchMedia() API.

       Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme is a high entropy hint so the site needs to opt into receiving it by sending an appropriate Accept-CH response header. A user agent may intentionally omit the Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme header to preserve user privacy since the user's preference could, in theory, be used for fingerprinting.

       SYNTAX

         Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme: <preference>

       DIRECTIVES

        * 
          * : A string indicating the user agent's preference for dark or light content: "light" or "dark".
       The value may originate from a corresponding setting in the underlying operating system.

       EXAMPLES

       USING SEC-CH-PREFERS-COLOR-SCHEME

       The client makes an initial request to the server:

         GET / HTTP/1.1
         Host: example.com

       The server responds, telling the client via Accept-CH that it accepts Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme. In this example Critical-CH is also used, indicating that Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme is considered a critical client hint.

         HTTP/1.1 200 OK
         Content-Type: text/html
         Accept-CH: Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme
         Vary: Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme
         Critical-CH: Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme

       > We've also specified Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme in the Vary header to indicate that responses should be separately cached based on the value of this header (even if the URL stays the same).
       > Each header listed in the Critical-CH header should also be present in the Accept-CH and Vary headers.
       The client automatically retries the request (due to Critical-CH being specified above), telling the server via Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme that it has a user preference for dark content:

         GET / HTTP/1.1
         Host: example.com
         Sec-CH-Prefers-Color-Scheme: "dark"

       The client will include the header in subsequent requests in the current session, unless the Accept-CH changes in responses to indicate that it is no longer supported by the server.

       SPECIFICATIONS

       BROWSER COMPATIBILITY

       SEE ALSO

        * Client hints
        * User-Agent Client Hints API
        * Accept-CH
        * HTTP Caching varying responses and Vary header
        * @media/prefers-color-scheme CSS media query
        * Improving user privacy and developer experience with User-Agent Client Hints (developer.chrome.com)

HTTP manual                             from the official documentation
