HTTP.HEADER-IDEMPOTENCY-KEY(1)   Sandbox manual   HTTP.HEADER-IDEMPOTENCY-KEY(1)

       NAME

       Idempotency-Key header - The HTTP Idempotency-Key request header can be used to make POST and PATCH requests idempotent.

       IDEMPOTENCY-KEY HEADER

       {{non-standard_header}}

       The HTTP Idempotency-Key request header can be used to make POST and PATCH requests idempotent.

       This allows clients to resend unacknowledged requests without having to be concerned that the request has already been received and acted on by the server.

       Header type Request header Forbidden request header No

       SYNTAX

         Idempotency-Key: <key>

       DIRECTIVES

        * 
          * : The unique key for a particular request.
       The format is defined by the server.

       DESCRIPTION

       The HTTP methods GET, HEAD, PUT, DELETE, and OPTIONS are idempotent. What this means is that you can send a message with these methods any number of times and the state of the server either won't be changed, or will be changed in the same way every time it gets the message. For example, if you send the same PUT message multiple times it will update the same resource on the server each time, with the same value.

       The POST and PATCH methods are non-idempotent, which means that the server state may change each time the message is received. Unlike a PUT message, if you send the same POST request multiple times, the server may create a new resource for each successful request. Similarly, a PATCH reflects a change with respect to a particular state, and that state is changed each time the patch is applied.

       Idempotence is important in cases where a client does not receive a response, because it means the client can safely resend the request without having to worry about possible side effects.

       The HTTP Idempotency-Key header allows a client to make POST and PATCH requests idempotent by giving them a unique identifier (a key). The client can then resend the same request multiple times, and the server can know that it should only perform the action once.

       CLIENT RESPONSIBILITIES

       Client JavaScript should attach the Idempotency-Key header in fetch requests for endpoints that require it, with a key that conforms to the requirements published by the server.

       A unique key must be used for each new request that is sent, and the same key should be used if that request is resent.

       SERVER RESPONSIBILITIES

       Servers that support the Idempotency-Key header are expected to document and publish their support, including the endpoints that require the header, and any requirements on the key (such as length, computation method, and expiry).

       Note that the server may choose to expire received keys over time; the key expiry behavior must be defined and documented so that clients can make conforming requests.

       IDEMPOTENCY FINGERPRINT

       A unique key is expected to be used in each request.

       In order to protect against clients reusing keys for new requests, a server may create and store an "idempotency fingerprint" of the request along with the key. This is a hash of all or part of a request that can be compared to other requests with the same key.

       If idempotency fingerprinting is supported, the server can send an error response if the same key has a different fingerprint.

       REQUEST PROCESSING

       On receiving a POST or PATCH request with an Idempotency-Key on an endpoint that requires it, the server should check whether it already has received a request with that key.

        * If it hasn't, the server should perform the operation and respond, and then store the key.
        * If it has, it should not perform the operation, but should respond as though it had.
       Servers that are using an idempotency fingerprint would also generate and store a fingerprint for each new request. This would be used to respond with an error if a subsequent key and fingerprint did not match.

       If a request is received without an Idempotency-Key on an endpoint that requires it, the server should respond with an error.

       SERVER ERROR RESPONSES

       A server should provide error responses in the following cases:

        * 400 Bad Request: The header is omitted for an endpoint that is documented as requiring it.
        * 409 Conflict: A request with the same key is currently/still being processed.
        * 422 Unprocessable Content: The key is already being used for a different request payload (if idempotency fingerprinting is supported).
       In the case of a 409 Conflict response, clients will need to wait before retrying. For all the other errors clients will need to amend the requests before resending.

       The specification does not mandate a format for the error response payload, but errors should contain a link to implementation-specific documentation explaining the error. The JSON payload format outlined in Problem Details for HTTP APIs is one option. For example, the following response might be used for a missing key:

         HTTP/1.1 400 Bad Request
         Content-Type: application/problem+json
         Content-Language: en

         {
             "type": "https://developer.example.com/idempotency/docs",
             "title": "Idempotency-Key is missing",
             "detail": "This operation is idempotent and requires correct usage of Idempotency Key.",
         }

       EXAMPLES

       A POST REQUEST WITH A KEY

       The following message shows a POST request to create a new user. The key 9c7d2b4a0e1f6c835a2d1b0f4e3c5a7d is a unique value that matches the requirements published by the host (example.com doesn't support this header, so we've just made up a value).

         POST /api/users HTTP/1.1
         Host: example.com
         Content-Type: application/json
         Idempotency-Key: 9c7d2b4a0e1f6c835a2d1b0f4e3c5a7d

         {
           "user_id": "12345",
           "name": "Sharma Chow",
           "email": "sharmac@example.com"
         }

       If no response is received, the client can safely resend the exact same request. If the server didn't get the previous request, it will act on this one; if it has already received the previous request, the second one will be ignored, but the server will respond as though it processed the second one as usual.

       If the client resends the request too quickly, it might get an error response like this. Note that only the HTTP status code is mandated, the rest of the information is defined by the server.

         HTTP/1.1 409 Conflict
         Content-Type: application/problem+json
         Content-Language: en

         {
             "type": "https://example.com/idempotency/docs",
             "title": "Server processing previous request.",
             "detail": "A request with the same key is currently/still being processed.",
         }

       SPECIFICATIONS

       BROWSER COMPATIBILITY

       

HTTP manual                             from the official documentation
