HTTP.HEADER-SEC-FETCH-SITE(1)    Sandbox manual    HTTP.HEADER-SEC-FETCH-SITE(1)

       NAME

       Sec-Fetch-Site header - The HTTP Sec-Fetch-Site fetch metadata request header indicates the relationship between a request initiator's origin and the origin of the 

       SEC-FETCH-SITE HEADER

       The HTTP Sec-Fetch-Site fetch metadata request header indicates the relationship between a request initiator's origin and the origin of the requested resource.

       In other words, this header tells a server whether a request for a resource is coming from the same origin, the same site, a different site, or is a "user initiated" request. The server can then use this information to decide if the request should be allowed.

       Same-origin requests would usually be allowed by default, but what happens for requests from other origins may further depend on what resource is being requested, or information in another fetch metadata request header. By default, requests that are not accepted should be rejected with a 403 response code.

       The header is only included in requests to potentially trustworthy URLs.

       Header type Fetch Metadata Request Header Forbidden request header Yes (Sec- prefix) CORS-safelisted request header No

       SYNTAX

         Sec-Fetch-Site: cross-site
         Sec-Fetch-Site: same-origin
         Sec-Fetch-Site: same-site
         Sec-Fetch-Site: none

       DIRECTIVES

        * cross-site
          * : The request initiator and the server hosting the resource have a different site (i.e., a request by "potentially-evil.com" for a resource at "example.com").
        * same-origin
          * : The request initiator and the server hosting the resource have the same origin (same scheme, host and port).
        * same-site
          * : The request initiator and the server hosting the resource have the same site, including the scheme.
        * none
          * : This request is a user-originated operation. For example: entering a URL into the address bar, opening a bookmark, or dragging-and-dropping a file into the browser window.

       EXAMPLES

       A fetch request to https://mysite.example/foo.json originating from a web page on https://mysite.example (with the same port) is a same-origin request. The browser will generate the Sec-Fetch-Site: same-origin header as shown below, and the server will typically allow the request:

         GET /foo.json
         Sec-Fetch-Dest: empty
         Sec-Fetch-Mode: cors
         Sec-Fetch-Site: same-origin

       A fetch request to the same URL from another site, for example potentially-evil.com, causes the browser to generate a different header (e.g., Sec-Fetch-Site: cross-site), which the server can choose to accept or reject:

         GET /foo.json
         Sec-Fetch-Dest: empty
         Sec-Fetch-Mode: cors
         Sec-Fetch-Site: cross-site

       SPECIFICATIONS

       BROWSER COMPATIBILITY

       SEE ALSO

        * Sec-Fetch-Mode, Sec-Fetch-User, Sec-Fetch-Dest fetch metadata request headers
        * Protect your resources from web attacks with Fetch Metadata (web.dev)
        * Fetch Metadata Request Headers playground (secmetadata.appspot.com)

HTTP manual                             from the official documentation
