HTTP.HEADER-X-FORWARDED-FOR(1)   Sandbox manual   HTTP.HEADER-X-FORWARDED-FOR(1)

       NAME

       X-Forwarded-For header - The HTTP X-Forwarded-For (XFF) request header is a de-facto standard header for identifying the originating IP address of a client connectin

       X-FORWARDED-FOR HEADER

       The HTTP X-Forwarded-For (XFF) request header is a de-facto standard header for identifying the originating IP address of a client connecting to a web server through a proxy server.

       A standardized version of this header is the HTTP Forwarded header, although it's much less frequently used.

       > Improper use of this header can be a security risk.
       > For details, see the Security and privacy concerns section.
       Header type Request header Forbidden request header No

       SYNTAX

         X-Forwarded-For: <client>, <proxy>
         X-Forwarded-For: <client>, <proxy>, …, <proxyN>

       For example, an IPV6 client IP in the first header, an IPV4 client IP in the second header, and an IPV4 client IP and an IPV6 proxy IP in the third example:

         X-Forwarded-For: 2001:db8:85a3:8d3:1319:8a2e:370:7348
         X-Forwarded-For: 203.0.113.195
         X-Forwarded-For: 203.0.113.195, 2001:db8:85a3:8d3:1319:8a2e:370:7348

       DIRECTIVES

        * 
          * : The client IP address.
        * 
          * : A proxy IP address.
       If a request goes through multiple proxies, the IP addresses of each successive proxy are listed. This means that the rightmost IP address is the IP address of the most recent proxy and the leftmost IP address is the address of the originating client (assuming well-behaved client and proxies).

       DESCRIPTION

       When a client connects directly to a server, the client's IP address is sent to the server and is often written to server access logs. If a client connection passes through any forward or reverse proxies, the server only sees the final proxy's IP address, which is often of little use. That's especially true if the final proxy is a load balancer which is part of the same deployment as the server. To provide a more useful client IP address to the server, the X-Forwarded-For request header is used.

       For detailed guidance on using X-Forwarded-For, see the Parsing and Selecting an IP address sections.

       SECURITY AND PRIVACY CONCERNS

       This header exposes privacy-sensitive information by design, such as the IP address of the client. Therefore, the user's privacy must be kept in mind when using this header.

       If you know that all proxies in the request chain are trusted (i.e., you control them) and are configured correctly, the parts of the header added by your proxies can be trusted. If any proxy is malicious or misconfigured, any part of the header not added by a trusted proxy may be spoofed or may have an unexpected format or contents. If the server can be directly connected to from the internet — even if it is also behind a trusted reverse proxy — no part of the X-Forwarded-For IP list can be considered trustworthy or safe for security-related uses.

       Any security-related use of X-Forwarded-For (such as for rate limiting or IP-based access control) _must only_ use IP addresses added by a trusted proxy. Using untrustworthy values can result in rate-limiter avoidance, access-control bypass, memory exhaustion, or other negative security or availability consequences.

       Leftmost (untrusted) values must only be used for cases where there is no negative impact from using spoofed values.

       PARSING

       Improper parsing of the X-Forwarded-For header may have a negative security impact with consequences as described in the previous section. For this reason, the following points should be considered when parsing the header values.

       There may be multiple X-Forwarded-For headers present in a request. The IP addresses in these headers must be treated as a single list, starting with the first IP address of the first header and continuing to the last IP address of the last header. There are two ways of making this single list:

        * Join the X-Forwarded-For full header values with commas and then split by comma into a list, or
        * split each X-Forwarded-For header by comma into lists and then join the lists.
       It is insufficient to use only one of multiple X-Forwarded-For headers.

       Some reverse proxies will automatically join multiple X-Forwarded-For headers into one, but it is safer not to assume that this is the case.

       SELECTING AN IP ADDRESS

       When selecting an address, the full list of IPs (from all X-Forwarded-For headers) must be used.

       When choosing the X-Forwarded-For IP address closest to the client (untrustworthy and _not_ for security-related purposes), the first IP from the leftmost that is _a valid address_ and _not private/internal_ should be selected.

       > We say "a valid address" above because spoofed values may not be actual IP addresses.
       > Additionally, we say "not internal/private" because clients may have used proxies on their internal network, which may have added addresses from the private IP space.
       When choosing the first _trustworthy_ X-Forwarded-For client IP address, additional configuration is required. There are two common methods:

        * Trusted proxy count
          * : The count of reverse proxies between the internet and the server is configured.
       The X-Forwarded-For IP list is searched from the rightmost by that count minus one. For example, if there is only one reverse proxy, that proxy will add the client's IP address, so the rightmost address should be used. If there are three reverse proxies, the last two IP addresses will be internal.

        * Trusted proxy list
          * : The IPs or IP ranges of the trusted reverse proxies are configured.
       The X-Forwarded-For IP list is searched from the rightmost, skipping all addresses that are on the trusted proxy list. The first non-matching address is the target address.

       The first trustworthy X-Forwarded-For IP address may belong to an untrusted intermediate proxy rather than the actual client, but it is the only IP suitable to identify a client for security purposes.

       EXAMPLES

       CLIENT AND PROXY IPS

       From the following X-Forwarded-For request header, we can infer that the client IP address is 203.0.113.195, and the request has passed through two proxies. The first proxy has an IPv6 address of 2001:db8:85a3:8d3:1319:8a2e:370:7348 and the last proxy in the request chain has an IPv4 address of 198.51.100.178:

         X-Forwarded-For: 203.0.113.195,2001:db8:85a3:8d3:1319:8a2e:370:7348,198.51.100.178

       SPECIFICATIONS

       Not part of any current specification. The standardized version of this header is Forwarded.

       SEE ALSO

        * X-Forwarded-Host, X-Forwarded-Proto headers
        * Via
        * Forwarded
        * What is X-Forwarded-For and when can you trust it? httptoolkit.com (2024)

HTTP manual                             from the official documentation
