HTTP.METHOD-CONNECT(1)           Sandbox manual           HTTP.METHOD-CONNECT(1)

       NAME

       CONNECT request method - The CONNECT HTTP method requests that a proxy establish an HTTP tunnel to a destination server, and if successful, blindly forward data in b

       CONNECT REQUEST METHOD

       The CONNECT HTTP method requests that a proxy establish an HTTP tunnel to a destination server, and if successful, blindly forward data in both directions until the tunnel is closed.

       The request target is unique to this method in that it consists of only the host and port number of the tunnel destination, separated by a colon (see Syntax for details). Any 2XX successful response status code means that the proxy will switch to 'tunnel mode' and any data in the success response body is from the server identified by the request target.

       If a website is behind a proxy and it's enforced via network rules that all external traffic must pass through the proxy, the CONNECT method allows you to establish a TLS (HTTPS) connection with that website:

        * The client asks the proxy to tunnel the TCP connection to the desired destination.
        * The proxy server makes a secure connection to the server on behalf of the client.
        * Once the connection is established, the proxy server continues to relay the TCP stream to and from the client.
       Aside from enabling secure access to websites behind proxies, an HTTP tunnel provides a way to allow traffic that would otherwise be restricted (SSH or FTP) over the HTTP(S) protocol.

       CONNECT is a hop-by-hop method, meaning proxies will only forward the CONNECT request if there is another inbound proxy in front of the origin server since most origin servers do not implement CONNECT.

       > If you are running a proxy that supports CONNECT, restrict its use to a set of known ports or a configurable list of safe request targets.
       > There are significant risks in establishing a tunnel to arbitrary servers, particularly when the destination is a well-known or reserved TCP port that is not intended for Web traffic.
       > A loosely-configured proxy may be abused to forward traffic such as SMTP to relay spam email, for example.
       Request has body No Successful response has body No Safe No Idempotent No Cacheable No Allowed in HTML forms No

       SYNTAX

         CONNECT <host>:<port> HTTP/1.1

        * 
          * : A host which may be a registered hostname (e.g., example.com) or an IP address (IPv4, IPv6).
        * 
          * : A port number in decimal (e.g., 80, 443). There is no default port, so a client must send one.

       EXAMPLES

       PROXY AUTHORIZATION

       A request for proxy servers that require authorization to create a tunnel looks as follows. See the Proxy-Authorization header for more information.

         CONNECT server.example.com:80 HTTP/1.1
         Host: server.example.com:80
         Proxy-Authorization: basic aGVsbG86d29ybGQ=

       SPECIFICATIONS

       BROWSER COMPATIBILITY

       SEE ALSO

        * HTTP request methods
        * HTTP response status codes
        * HTTP headers
        * Proxy server glossary entry
        * Proxy-Authorization header
        * How To Use SSH Over An HTTP Proxy dimoulis.net (2023)

HTTP manual                             from the official documentation
