PY.RE(1)                         Sandbox manual                         PY.RE(1)

       RE

       Support for regular expressions (RE).

       RE.MATCH

         Match()

       The result of re.match() and re.search().
       Match objects always have a boolean value of True.

       RE.MATCH.END

         end(self, group=0, /)

       Return index of the end of the substring matched by group.

       RE.MATCH.EXPAND

         expand(self, /, template)

       Return the string obtained by doing backslash substitution on the string template, as done by the sub() method.

       RE.MATCH.GROUP

       group([group1, ...]) -> str or tuple.
       Return subgroup(s) of the match by indices or names.
       For 0 returns the entire match.

       RE.MATCH.GROUPDICT

         groupdict(self, /, default=None)

       Return a dictionary containing all the named subgroups of the match, keyed by the subgroup name.

       default
         Is used for groups that did not participate in the match.

       RE.MATCH.GROUPS

         groups(self, /, default=None)

       Return a tuple containing all the subgroups of the match, from 1.

       default
         Is used for groups that did not participate in the match.

       RE.MATCH.SPAN

         span(self, group=0, /)

       For match object m, return the 2-tuple (m.start(group), m.end(group)).

       RE.MATCH.START

         start(self, group=0, /)

       Return index of the start of the substring matched by group.

       RE.PATTERN

         Pattern()

       Compiled regular expression object.

       RE.PATTERN.FINDALL

         findall(self, /, string, pos=0, endpos=9223372036854775807)

       Return a list of all non-overlapping matches of pattern in string.

       RE.PATTERN.FINDITER

         finditer(self, /, string, pos=0, endpos=9223372036854775807)

       Return an iterator over all non-overlapping matches for the RE pattern in string.

       For each match, the iterator returns a match object.

       RE.PATTERN.FULLMATCH

         fullmatch(self, /, string, pos=0, endpos=9223372036854775807)

       Matches against all of the string.

       RE.PATTERN.MATCH

         match(self, /, string, pos=0, endpos=9223372036854775807)

       Matches zero or more characters at the beginning of the string.

       RE.PATTERN.SEARCH

         search(self, /, string, pos=0, endpos=9223372036854775807)

       Scan through string looking for a match, and return a corresponding match object instance.

       Return None if no position in the string matches.

       RE.PATTERN.SPLIT

         split(self, /, string, maxsplit=0)

       Split string by the occurrences of pattern.

       RE.PATTERN.SUB

         sub(self, /, repl, string, count=0)

       Return the string obtained by replacing the leftmost non-overlapping occurrences of pattern in string by the replacement repl.

       RE.PATTERN.SUBN

         subn(self, /, repl, string, count=0)

       Return the tuple (new_string, number_of_subs_made) found by replacing the leftmost non-overlapping occurrences of pattern with the replacement repl.

       RE.REGEXFLAG

         RegexFlag(*values)

       An enumeration.

       RE.COMPILE

         compile(pattern, flags=0)

       Compile a regular expression pattern, returning a Pattern object.

       RE.ERROR

         error(msg, pattern=None, pos=None)

       Exception raised for invalid regular expressions.

       Attributes:

           msg: The unformatted error message
           pattern: The regular expression pattern
           pos: The index in the pattern where compilation failed (may be None)
           lineno: The line corresponding to pos (may be None)
           colno: The column corresponding to pos (may be None)

       RE.ESCAPE

         escape(pattern)

       Escape special characters in a string.

       RE.FINDALL

         findall(pattern, string, flags=0)

       Return a list of all non-overlapping matches in the string.

       If one or more capturing groups are present in the pattern, return
       a list of groups; this will be a list of tuples if the pattern
       has more than one group.

       Empty matches are included in the result.

       RE.FINDITER

         finditer(pattern, string, flags=0)

       Return an iterator over all non-overlapping matches in the
       string.  For each match, the iterator returns a Match object.

       Empty matches are included in the result.

       RE.FULLMATCH

         fullmatch(pattern, string, flags=0)

       Try to apply the pattern to all of the string, returning
       a Match object, or None if no match was found.

       RE.MATCH

         match(pattern, string, flags=0)

       Try to apply the pattern at the start of the string, returning
       a Match object, or None if no match was found.

       RE.PURGE

         purge()

       Clear the regular expression caches

       RE.SEARCH

         search(pattern, string, flags=0)

       Scan through string looking for a match to the pattern, returning
       a Match object, or None if no match was found.

       RE.SPLIT

         split(pattern, string, maxsplit=0, flags=0)

       Split the source string by the occurrences of the pattern,
       returning a list containing the resulting substrings.  If
       capturing parentheses are used in pattern, then the text of all
       groups in the pattern are also returned as part of the resulting
       list.  If maxsplit is nonzero, at most maxsplit splits occur,
       and the remainder of the string is returned as the final element
       of the list.

       RE.SUB

         sub(pattern, repl, string, count=0, flags=0)

       Return the string obtained by replacing the leftmost
       non-overlapping occurrences of the pattern in string by the
       replacement repl.  repl can be either a string or a callable;
       if a string, backslash escapes in it are processed.  If it is
       a callable, it's passed the Match object and must return
       a replacement string to be used.

       RE.SUBN

         subn(pattern, repl, string, count=0, flags=0)

       Return a 2-tuple containing (new_string, number).
       new_string is the string obtained by replacing the leftmost
       non-overlapping occurrences of the pattern in the source
       string by the replacement repl.  number is the number of
       substitutions that were made. repl can be either a string or a
       callable; if a string, backslash escapes in it are processed.
       If it is a callable, it's passed the Match object and must
       return a replacement string to be used.

       RE.TEMPLATE

         template(pattern, flags=0)

       Compile a template pattern, returning a Pattern object, deprecated

PY manual                               generated from Python 3.12 docstrings
